 Chapter 1


“Do you like that?”  I shifted on the bed as the fifty-thread-count sheet scratched against my calves. Biggie was staring down at me from across the room in 24 x 38 form, half peeling, half clinging to the wall with contraband Blu Tack, his crown wonky. An apt display of the indignity of being stuck as a witness to everything that went down in a twenty-year-old guy’s uni room. My Guy— not my guy, but my guy—was using my left breast as a stress ball and okay, yeah, it was midterm so we had a ton of assignment deadlines, but take up yoga or something, lift more at the gym, but please do not take the pressure out on my tender tit. (It was day fourteen of my twenty-eight-day cycle. Hence why I was here. Ovulation sometimes makes decisions for you.) My Guy’s vodka-spiked breath was hot and curled around my neck, suffocating me. Above us, Biggie’s eyes looked bemused, his brows furrowed in concern. I feel you, Big Poppa.  This really wasn’t as fun as I’d hoped. As fun as it used to be. The newness, the thrill had worn off, and exposed the fact that My Guy really had no clue what he was doing. He relied on his status as campus hottie to do his work for him, trusting his squinted hazel eyes, which counterfeited intensity and interest in you—the real you, Ma—to do all the work for him. He didn’t engage with his attraction to you because he was so sure of your attraction to him, and why bother trying to make you feel good when he assumed everything he did would automatically feel good to you?  My Guy had asked me a question but he wasn’t waiting for the answer. He moved to suckle at my neck aggressively, toothily, still using my boob as a distraction from the three-thousand-word essay on macroeconomics he had due in about nine hours. Honestly, why do so many guys mistake vigor for technique? Like, okay, you want me, this much is clear and, frankly, understandable, but what are you going to do with it? Where is the finesse, hon? The clear understanding that you are handling a masterpiece?! You’ve got this far. Appreciate it. I shimmied beneath him and for a few seconds the movement deluded him into thinking he was doing something right. He groaned an “Oh is it, babe?”—until he realized I was shimmying out from under him to sit up straight, snap my bra back on, slip on my T-shirt, pull down my tan corduroy mini, and shrug on my leather jacket. It ain’t, babe. “Babe?” His hazel eyes were soft with confusion and, bless his soul, I got it. This didn’t happen to him usually. This shouldn’t happen to him, according to his calculations. (All collegiate dating interactions were calculations, and his were Him + Girl = whatever he wanted it to equal, because look at him for fuck’s sake, how could she not want what he wanted.) This abrupt change clearly took some adjusting for him, like it took some adjusting for him when he finally realized that I was the one who didn’t want to be seen in public with him, who chose the hours we were together, who didn’t want to sleep over. It turned his little world inside out that he wasn’t the center of mine. And part of his attraction to me was fascination, exploration of the unknown, a Girl Who Don’t Wanna Be Cuffed by Me safari. I untucked my braids from the back of my jacket, slipped on my boots. “I hate it when you call me that. Don’t call me babe. I’ve told you before.” I moved to the mirror pinned against his wardrobe. It was smeared with antiperspirant smatter that hadn’t been wiped and was framed by vaguely sexual-sounding motivational workout slogans: “Rise and Grind,” “Beast Mode,” “Feel the Heat.” I stared at the mirror, then, slipping out a baby wipe from my leather satchel, I wiped my lips, disinfecting them, removing the organic, locally produced lip gloss known as My Guy’s saliva for something more fruity smelling. “Look, I’ve been thinking”—I dabbed on my lips with a doe-foot wand —“we should cool off with this. You know? I’m busy with uni and the show, and sneaking around has been fun but—” “You’re ending this, Kiki? Really?”  I flicked my gaze from my reflection to his. Pure disbelief. Brow furrowed, pouty pink lips slightly agape. It would’ve been kinda cute if it wasn’t based on arrogance. He was topless, his firm body panting, recovering, asking his true question, spilling the real tea, You gonna deny this? Really? The thing is when you make going to the gym six days a week your personality, it must be hurtful when it doesn’t melt the knees it’s supposed to, fails to work its tried and true magic. But after a while, it just wasn’t enough. His body wasn’t much of a conversationalist, didn’t ask mine what her interests were, her favorite song, which spot was the softest.  I looked at his reflection. “Okay, let’s be real . . . there was nothing really to end. There was no beginning to this. It just happened and I—we—kept letting it happen.”  “And I’m glad it happened.” He got up from the bed, came up behind me, and looked at himself in the mirror as he wrapped his arms around my waist, pulling me back against him so I could feel just how glad he was. He looked at us in the mirror.  “Look at how good we look together.” He removed an arm to lift my chin up, as if I’d asked him for help. “People respect you. People respect me. Think about how we would rule this place, babygirl. Looks and brains. Light and dark.”  Babygirl. It sounded slightly foreign on his tongue. He’d gone to a boarding school in Sussex, used to only have white friends, and was still fleshing out this flavor of persona.  I raised a brow. “Which of us is which?”  He smiled, tightening his grip around my waist. “See, funny, too.”  It only took a few seconds for his gaze to flit from me, from us, back to his own reflection. His bottom lip had tucked in. It was honestly like a very uncomfortable threesome where two people were way more into each other than they were you, eventually leaving you to watch them doing their thing, fascinated. I presume.  My Guy’s eyes were still on his own. He kissed my neck. “A peng power couple.”  I bit my lip to keep my laugh in, but by the way his grip tightened on me I think he misread it as a sign of arousal. Oh, man. I knew enough about him (enough was enough) to know he was serious. This had been fun, but I was done.  I unwound his arms from around my waist, his weight against me now oppressive. It was kinda disturbing how despite his heat, I wanted to shudder within my leather jacket. His room smelled of weed, Tom Ford hastily sprayed to cover up the weed, and the heady, musky spoor that could only be described as boy. The cocktail was making me a little queasy. I picked up my satchel, forcing his arms to drop to his sides as I turned to face him. “Do you want me, or do you just want me to want you?”  My Guy kissed his teeth and groaned, running a hand across his face impatiently. “Man, for fuck’s sake, see, like, here you go again, Kiki. Speaking in riddles. Just be straight with me.”  “I always am. I told you from jump what this was. You were cool. You said you preferred it. You do you. I do me.”  My Guy looked at me with almost the same intensity that he’d been looking at himself in the reflection a few seconds before. He was doing it again, hoping the facts that his eyes were hazel and his skin caramel were enough to work for him. I guess it could have worked if I hadn’t already bitten into him and felt the crunch—and discovered that his sexy was fake. Or if I hadn’t chosen him specifically because there was no risk of falling for him.  “Yeah, but maybe . . . I didn’t realize how much I’d like it when I do you.”  I knew how My Guy thought it sounded in his head. His voice had lowered into a purr, his eyes calculatedly heavy, constructed to elicit the image of him on top of me, his voice against my neck. It was meant to weaken me—and it had worked so many times for him, I’m sure—but I had a built-in resistance for that kind of bullshit. I’d been through it before and now I had immunity. He snapped out of intoxication mode on hearing my incredulous laugh, his eyes widening, mild annoyance and confusion slipping into them.  I shook my head. “You haven’t done me.”  “I mean basically.”  “I mean basically, we’ve only had a few spicy cuddles.”  “And whose fault is that?”  I smiled. “I have to go.”  “You’re shook and I get it, but you’re different from the rest, Kiki. It isn’t the same with you. You know I cancelled on Emma from Hazelwitch Hall for you tonight?”  I turned from my way to the door and pressed my hand against my chest. “Oh, you shouldn’t have. Really.”  My Guy nodded, rolled his tongue in his mouth, and laughed humorlessly. “You’re really kind of a bitch. You know that?”  I grinned. “I do. Thanks, though. It means a lot coming from you. If a guy like you doesn’t think I’m a bitch that means I’m fucking up somewhere.”  He laughed heartily, with the energy of someone who hadn’t understood a word I’d said, and went back to his bed, reclining, abs flexing, white boxer-briefs tighter than normal. It was like he had to physically remind himself that he was hot. As if he was actually capable of forgetting. “Be like that. You’re gonna be back.”  “Well if I did leave an earring, you can toss it. I never wear my good shit here.”  Okay, so it was a good exit line and I was proud of it, but I’d jinxed myself. As I did my ritualistic double-checking of my bag (I couldn’t leave any evidence of my presence) as the door to My Guy’s flat clicked behind me, I realized I’d left my lip gloss. Shit. Actually, it was Aminah’s lip gloss that she told me to look after in my bag and I’d forgotten to return a month ago. Despite the Best Friend Bylaws stating that there is a statute of limitations in relation to makeup reclamation, I’m pretty sure she would be pissed at where I’d left it. She would rather I’d flushed it down the toilet. After peeing on it. I couldn’t have left it. I rooted for it as I absentmindedly walked toward the lift, praying that God would forgive me for my recent transgressions. (Did it help that My Guy had a tattoo that said In God We Trust on his chest? In cursive, above a Tupac quote: “Real eyes realize real lies.”)  I hit a very firm, warm wall, my nose squishing against the soft cotton of a slate-gray shirt. “Shit! My bad—”  “Nah, it’s cool, don’t—”  The voice was low and smooth, thick like honey sunk to the bottom of a tumbler of cognac. I looked up—but not enough because I found I’d only reached his nose: it travelled down his face narrowly and then curved out, drastically, majestically. I mean, it was quite enough to look at, but I thought I’d try again. I tilted my head a little further up till I hit black quartz gazing at me, glinting.  He was looking at me like he knew me. That was weird for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the fact that I knew everybody in the Black caucus of Whitewell College. I knew each clique, subgroup, and faction and, granted, it was the third week of second year so there was a bunch of new people, but even so. I flicked through my mental Rolodex of mandem and came up blank. He wasn’t part of the Nigerian Princes (sons of Nigerian politicians), the Faux-Roadmen (studying pharmacy at a redbrick university is not the same as dealing, sweetie), the Future Shiny Suits Who Read (a group that could include any of the above, but who usually studied something finance-related, sought to work in the city, wanted an educated girl who knew her place; quite fine and included My Guy). Nor the Water into Wine (at the clerb) Bible Study Boys . . . nothing. Looking at his face seemed to actively contribute to my mind blankness, which was bizarre because my mind was never blank unless made purposely so. Like when My Guy was trying to talk to me about The 48 Laws of Power one time.  He blinked and cleared his throat even though when I heard his voice the first time it didn’t sound like it could get any clearer. “Uh, don’t sweat it—”  Funny he should mention that, because I was. My skin was tingling. This was intriguing. I didn’t really sweat, and when I did (like the time I went on the elliptical for two hours while watching Beychella on my phone), it was like this, a slight prickle.  “I don’t sweat. But thanks.” I started to move past him to the lift, encouraging him to do the same, toward his destination, his destiny, away from me, when he stopped suddenly, turned around, his dark brows furrowed.  “Uh, I’m sorry, I just . . . did you say you don’t sweat?”  I cast a gaze across the hall, partly to obnoxiously demonstrate the fact that no one else could have just said that and also to double-check that nobody was coming out or coming in. I knew every Blackwellian who lived on My Guy’s floor and timed my visit knowing that two of them were at Bible study, one at football, and another at a friend’s birthday dinner. There was nobody. I wouldn’t be seen. I looked back at him, hitched a shoulder upward.  “Yeah. Why?”  He nodded, his eyes squinting, concentrating the light, the corner of his plush mouth quirking up. “Sweating is a regular biological human function.”  “What’s your point?”  “So, you’re saying you’re not a regular human.”  I smiled, sliding my head to the side. “Do I look like a regular human to you?” Trick question. He would stumble or leave. Stumble and leave. It was fun, tangling my words around their ankles, without them realizing, and then watching them trip.  He inhaled deeply, like he was considering the question. He stepped back a little and assessed me, flicking a quick gaze down me that felt like he was striking a match against my body. Something flared under my skin. His eyes rose to meet mine again.  “Nah. Definitely not regular.” He smiled, and my pulse stuttered. “Just not used to seeing another superhuman about, so had to double-check. It makes me feel less lonely, so thank you.”  Uh-huh. I held still. That wasn’t supposed to happen. I knew this game, this game was mine, and normally I knew how to lose them. I’d expected to lose him. In fact, I’d wanted to lose him, to shake off whatever had been clinging on to me in the two minutes we had interacted, the gliding of energy on my skin that was making me fizz (I knew having a latte past three P.M. was a bad idea, I am mad sensitive), but not only had he followed me, it was like he already knew where I was going. It was like we were going the same way. He shot me a half smile, sloping, something that managed to be tiny and also have the power to elevate his face, soften the steep angles. The sharp glare of the industrial lights in the hallway had nothing on it. It made its way to the pit of my belly and tugged.  Our eyes stayed on each other for a few seconds longer, as I attempted to figure out what the hell was happening, when a door clicked open somewhere in the near distance. Both of us jumped as if we’d been interrupted, as if there had been anything to interrupt, and turned to the direction of what would have been a disturbance, as if there was anything to disturb.  Zuri Isak stood at the door to flat 602 (I’d just left flat 601) in a crop top and leggings, curls glossy and loose. Cute, casual. Purposely cute and casual. Zuri wasn’t meant to be here. She was meant to be at her friend Nia’s birthday dinner at Sakura in town. I knew this because there was a social media countdown designed to make people who weren’t invited feel like they were missing out on the Groupon dinner, at a place where sugar daddies took their babies to dinner. Anyway, this was particularly interesting because Nia and Zuri had recently undergone a power shift in their clique whereby Nia had usurped Zuri as Queen Bee by organizing a group trip to Barcelona to stay at her stepdad’s villa over the summer while Zuri was visiting family in Michigan. Nia could have easily reorganized it for when Zuri returned but she didn’t want to do that. It was a power play. A coup. And judging by the light mascara, dab of lip gloss, and smidge of blush—I flicked my gaze over to Fellow Superhuman, only just now noticing that he was holding a bottle of rosé in his hand—something told me that Zuri skipping the birthday dinner to Netflix and chill was also a power play.  Zuri nodded at Fellow Superhero, who definitely wasn’t as lonely as he made out to be. “Hey you! I didn’t hear you knock so thought I’d come check—”  He smiled at her. It was interesting. Objectively, as a scientist (fuckboiologist and mandemologist), it was different from the smile he gave me. The smile he gave her was mainstream, pop, radio-friendly. The smile he’d given me was the single released after an artist had established themselves, found their voice, could speak directly to their target audience. The smile he’d given me had more R&B to it.  He walked toward the open door. “Sorry, the lift took its time—”  Zuri nodded absentmindedly, throwing her gaze to me, “Hey Kiki, wassup?”  She wasn’t suspicious—I wasn’t a threat; I was never a threat. I was known as The One Who Didn’t Date—but that was precisely why my presence there was curious. I didn’t have a clique and I lived with my best friend. Weren’t nobody for me to visit. I’d thought this through, though. I had an alibi in a girl (not a member of the Black caucus) I had a political communication module with, and who also happened to live in flat 604.  “I was just picking up some notes from Ilana.” I patted my satchel. “Missed a lecture today. Cramps.”  I briefly wondered if the detail was overkill but Zuri had stopped listening halfway through my sentence anyway. Her hand was already curving around Fellow Superhuman’s sturdy arm and she was looking up at him, her long lashes batting. “Cool. Awesome. I’m just . . . going over a tutorial too. Can’t wait for your next show!”  She pulled him into her flat, but not before he threw me an inscrutable look. I shook my head, smiled, and pressed the lift button. Yeah, something was gonna be studied that night. A relief, really. My understanding of fuckboiology had fallen out of whack for a second. It was nice to have it reset. Whoever he was, he was just like the rest. That was comforting.  Chapter 2


I snuck into the cramped campus radio studio, hoping the fact that I’d opened the door gently would make a difference given the fact that I was late to my preshow meeting with radio tech, producer (informal capacity), and my best friend (formal capacity) Aminah. However, as soon as the door clicked open, she whizzed around on the bright blue Office Depot chair, from where she was sat at the radio desk, twenty inches of wavy hair, swishing with the movement, a badass Bond villain with an exceptional ass.  She rose an immaculate brow. “Where you been, bitch?”  “Library.”  “Lying.”  I grinned and shrugged my jacket off. “Yup.”  “Do I wanna know?”  “No.”  Aminah narrowed her eyes. “But I know.”  “I know.”  Aminah shook her head with kind concern, looking like a reality TV show therapist, pressing lilac gelled nails against her chest. She wasn’t about to let this go.  “You know, sis, it really isn’t healthy to purposefully emotionally disinvest from intimate relationships—”  I furrowed my brows in mock confusion as I threw my jacket on the worn leather sofa against the wall. “I’m sorry, I forget, are you a psych student or marketing?”  Aminah shook her head as she relinquished the seat by the desk and moved to the sofa, smacking my butt on her way over. “Alright, I don’t like attitude. Very hostile. And actually I took a psych module this term, but that’s not the point. I got that from Auntie Jada Pinkett Smith’s talk show —”  “Speaking of shows. Can we prep for ours?”  Aminah smirked humorlessly. “Nice pivot. Very well done. So now you wanna work? After being late for the staff briefing?” She grabbed a packet of plantain chips from the stash we kept in the cupboard in the corner of the room and sat herself on the sofa, pointing at me like a disappointed Nigerian grandma with a hand on her wrapper-wrapped waist. “No snacks for you.”  I resumed my rightful place in front of the desk, slipped the headphones around my neck, and tapped the laptop alive. “I didn’t wanna eat anyway.” Another superfluous lie. “And also, we are the staff. And it’s fine, I know the topic I’m gonna cover and you know all we ever do in these meetings is talk shit—”  She popped a plantain chip in her mouth. “Cffrucial for staff bonding—”  “We live together—”  “What’s your point?”  I laughed. “You know what? I don’t have one. You’re right. I’m sorry . . .” I paused and cleared my throat, schooling my voice into nonchalance. I mean I was nonchalant, but I wanted to be very clearly, unequivocally nonchalant because my best friend had emotional X-ray vision. “Hey, real quick, um . . . I bumped into this guy earlier, and I’ve never seen him before, which is weird because—”  Aminah had brought her tablet out of the expensive structured bag she had lying on the sofa, presumably scrolling the show’s page for today’s topic. She immediately pulled down her black-rimmed designer spectacles and smirked, doing precisely what I hoped she wouldn’t do, making my casual inquiry into a thing.  “Oh? Kiki Banjo intrigued by someone? Well, put me in a gray double jersey sweater/jogger combo outfit because the world is clearly ending.”  In another life, Aminah Bakare—who was currently wearing a checked blazer together with a matching miniskirt and a black polo shirt—could easily have been Supreme of the Naija rich bitches at Whitewell College. Her parents ran a Nigerian snack empire called ChopChop (source of our endless supply of plantain chips), and up until the age of fifteen she’d been schooled in a prestigious international British school in Lagos, where everyone inexplicably spoke in an affected Valley girl accent that she eschewed out of principle. (“Why would I choose to sound Kardashian? What kind of recolonization?”) Her parents thought that finishing her education in England (where she was born but not bred) would help her when it came to applying to university, so she ended up in a private boarding school in Sussex for a few years, which she hated. (“It was full of literal landed gentry and Freemasons, Kiki. You know what Freemasons are? It’s white juju. The most wicked kind. I was the only Black girl and I swear to you my English teacher looked me directly in the eye and said the word ‘nigger.’ Yes, we were discussing Catcher in the Rye, but is that the point?!”) She left to complete her A Levels at a state school on the East London/Essex border while staying with her aunt, achieving the straight As her parents swore she wouldn’t be able to get without a school that counted Margaret Thatcher’s grandchild among its alumni. It was to Rosewood Hall’s relief. She’d made their existence very difficult by levelling formal complaints about racialized comments made by staff members and students alike, refusing to wear a Memorial Day poppy, and questioning why they learned about the British Empire without criticizing its brutality. The point is, that despite being a relative renegade and a Bad Bitch who rejected all expectations and presumptions, on a granular level—my best friend, my sister—Aminah Bakare was a princess who could detect the presence of a pea beneath a custom memory-foam mattress and, therefore, would not be caught dead wearing gray double jersey out in public.  I rolled my eyes. “Alright, a little dramatic. Ose,̣ Halle Barely—”  Aminah almost choked on a plantain chip. “Wow—”  “Look, it’s just for the social database, so we know what’s going on in the uni. For work purposes. How can I talk about what’s going on if I don’t know what’s going on? It’s just weird because I’ve never seen him before and he was going to see Zuri Isak—”  Aminah pulled her glasses down further. “Uh-huh. Zuri Isak, who just so happens to live in the same building and I believe the same floor as—”  “You know what? Forget it. Let’s just get ready for the show, we got ten minutes. Can you shoot me over some of the questions please?”  Aminah smiled and turned her gaze back to the tablet screen “Okay, I’m gonna pretend to move on, but . . .” Her slickly shaped brows suddenly knitted in curiosity as she scrolled.  My brows instantly did the same, because when Aminah frowns, so do I. It’s instinctive. “What’s up?”  “Yo . . . so, this is weird. All the advice questions this week are hella . . . specific? ‘How to make a guy wife you?,’ ‘How to make a guy choose you?,’ ‘How to be a priority?’”  I wheeled my chair over immediately. This was alarming and unlike Blackwellian women. They knew better—I’d made sure of it. True, we mainly dealt with relationship dilemmas and I primarily gave out romantic advice, but we’d never received a lump genre of question before. Nothing this focused.  Since first year, when I started this show—R&B and soul punctuated with advice that tied into themes of songs—the Blackwellian babes and I had been through a lot. Together we dealt with boys who said, “You’re moving kind of mad still,” when you asked them the simple question “What are we?” I’d helped guide them around mandem who elongated their “wows,” to questions that were veiled iterations of “If you profess to like me, why don’t you fucking act like it, you prick?”  That “woooww” was a tool, I told the girls, the extra syllables added to buy the boy time to figure out what lie to tell you when you queried why you got a “good morning, beautiful” text from him when your girl said he’d been seen coming out of Teni’s flat this morning. I broke down how to handle guys who would then turn around and ask, “Why u preeing for?,” like you were the crazy one when the day before he had drawled, voice rumbling through collar bone, “You’re different still, you know that, babes. Never met anyone like you.” We had grown, developed in our studies of fuckboiology, my syllabus strong. So it seemed strange that suddenly they were preoccupied with being chosen. We were the choosers, we never begged.  Aminah had pushed her glasses back up, inspecting the comments with scientific attention: “The comments are clique wide: the Vegan Cupcakes, the London Gyaldem, Naija Princesses, Bible Study Babes, and all with the same kinda question. Plus, they’re interacting with each other. Badly. There’s no ‘You got this, sis.’ It’s . . . savage. It’s ‘Stay away from him–type shit.”  I took the tablet from her to examine it for myself. She was right. Instead of the usual supportive comments that littered the page there was infighting, sniping—“Have you considered that maybe he ain’t want you, sis?,” “Sis, wasn’t your man just caught in the bed of one of those white girls that always crash our motives dressed as rebore Kim Ks? Maybe take time to recover??” Sheesh.  “Sis” was a powerful, potent word, one that had the power to build up or destroy with the same intensity; it was a sword that could either be used to knight or slice. There was a bloodbath in the Brown Sugar comment section, even worse than when someone said they “didn’t really get Beyoncé” during a debate session at a Blackwellian meeting.  This was bad.  Since its conception Brown Sugar was the glue that gelled the female factions of Blackwell together; the show was where we virtually communed and our social page was a safe space where girls would put aside their differences to bond with double-tap likes over dickhead drama. Groups that didn’t really fuck with each other during Blackwell socials (other universities had African-Caribbean Societies, but we flipped the name of our institution and made it our own), would coalesce in the comment section to drag a Wasteman who replied to an errant “I love you” with “safe babes.” This was deep.  I passed the tablet back over to my best friend. “This is over one guy. There’s a unifying source here—”  Aminah nodded. “Right, but this hasn’t happened before. I mean we’ve had girls fighting over guys but not like this. And I really don’t think the demographic of the Blackwell mandem has changed that drastically in the past year, and— Why do you have that look on your face?”  Of course. It had to be. Fellow Superhuman from earlier wasn’t like the other guys. No, he was smooth, actually, genuinely smooth. Or at least extremely skilled at seeming genuine. He was warm, looked you in the eye. I had built up an immunity and he had almost got me. He had looked at me and I had felt it under my skin—and if he almost got me that meant that he definitely had got some of the other girls.  I nodded at Aminah. “I think I know who it is. You have a way of checking if the girls have had a mutual follow on social media recently?”  Aminah smirked. “Do I own every single item from Fenty Beauty? Let’s not ask silly questions. I study digital marketing. I am good at what I do. I am a social media savant, sweetie.” She said all this while swiping and tapping like a maestro conducting an orchestra, effortlessly subduing technology with a perfectly manicured hand. She stopped abruptly and held the tablet up to her chest, mischief peppering her face.  “Keeks, the guy you met before, was he tall, dark, and handsome? Looks like he walked out of a nineties rom-com? Looking like some sort of stem- cell experiment between Kofi Siriboe and Morris Chestnut?”  I would have laughed if the description wasn’t so creepily accurate. “You found him?”  Aminah flipped the tablet around: it was zoomed in on the ProntoPic page that had Fellow Superhero staring at me from a beach, topless, in pink board shorts with palm trees on them, a red cup in hand. His chest was all ridges and slopes. I was never really a fan of extreme sports but hiking suddenly seemed like a cool thing to try.  Aminah’s smirk broadened. “I think we found the reason our girls are moving mad. His name is Malakai Korede. Transferred in September from Northchester University. So, we know he’s smart. Smart enough to have you wondering who he is—”  I narrowed my eyes, took the tablet from her, and scrolled through his pictures. His selfies were sparse, so we knew he wasn’t overtly vain. He was confident and breezy with his looks, and when he did take selfies, they were purposeful. They were neither the badly angled close-ups of nostrils that made a sis quickly rush to say “He’s better in person,” nor were they the cringey mirror poses, the squinted eyes, slight pout, captioned with a lazy trap lyric that boasted of money, bitches, and swag the dude most likely lacked. Nah, Fellow Superhuman’s, sorry, Malakai’s photos were interesting. There was one in front of the Mona Lisa.  I asked what she’s on tonight and she side-eyed me. Curved by a 516-year-old,  I can’t believe. #notageist.

A smile I didn’t agree to release slipped out. Unnerving. Huh. Okay, so he somehow managed to be part of the 0.001 percent of the male population that was vaguely amusing. I could see how that might rattle our girls. I was pretty sure the majority of guys in our uni thought satire was a way of describing an outfit. I swiped a little more and came across a picture with the most cherubic little girl with rich black clouds at the side of her heart-shaped face, annotated with:  She’s the boss of me. #uncleniecebonding #PrincessAliyah

So he was good with kids, had a softness to him. The most dangerous thing about that was clearly it wasn’t performed: there was no way he could fake the adoration with which he looked at that angel. With that obnoxious display of genuine cuteness, he was speaking directly to a bunch of young women whose mothers had told them that they were to graduate with a diploma in one hand and a future Obama in the other. The case of Malakai Korede was solidifying. He was a catch—fresh manna from heaven in the form of a man from Brixton (gleaned from tagged locations). And we, the girls of Whitewell, were in a romantic desert. Who were we to question God’s boon, an oasis to satisfy our thirst? The comments on his photos (“Go off king!”) were from members of the same clique. The most recent photo featured heart emojis from Nia. And he was also desirable enough to be used as a pawn within intersquad politics. Yeah, this was worse than I thought. He was evolved. He wasn’t a cookie-cutter player, dumb but affable. He had a personality, ridges and hard edges, and quirks and crooks, and he still managed to be apparently generally palatable enough to be attractive to all the men-loving, femme subgroups in Blackwell.  It was only mid-October, but the scope of his reach in the female cohort of the ACS was already impressively wide—more than your regular tall, dark, and handsome headache could hope to achieve in six months. There was something about him, a different kick to his sauce. Our girls weren’t fools; they were wary, tough. Sure, Malakai was fresh meat but if they found him unpalatable, they would have spat him out pretty fast. But this boy remained undragged on social media, managing to fly under my radar, somehow safely untethered, despite having some sort of link to a spice from every female Blackwellian clique. No other boy on campus could have got away with it. Somehow, he was turning our girls on each other. Like an infection, he had to be drawn out.  I passed the tablet back. “I’m gonna deal with this. He’s messing with our girls. Plus, they’re our core demographic. We’re a space of peace and truth and if he’s causing discord within them that’s an issue for me.”  Aminah cackled and threw a plantain chip at me, which was mainly annoying because I hadn’t managed to catch it with my mouth. A waste. “Yeah. I’m sure you want him to cause discord in your core demographic —”  I wheeled myself back to the desk. “Okay. Well, I see you’re not taking this seriously enough. Also, that doesn’t even make sense—”  Aminah shrugged. “I thought it was poetic.”  “Can we start the show?”  I smiled into the mic and adjusted the headphones on my ears, slid a knob on the mixing desk down, and switched to a soft neo-soul instrumental, turning it down low.


Whitewell College Radio, 9:30—11:00 P.M. slot, Thursday Brown Sugar Show

“Good evening, fam, that was D’Angelo and you already know what it is, kickin’ it with Keeks and throwing it all the way back this Thursday night, giving you the finest, smoothest, sexiest tunes to vibe to—as always, because I care about you guys. I want you to have the best in all things. Now, with that being said, tonight I have something in particular I wanna discuss with my sisters. Fellas, stay if you want but if you’re easily rattled by women acknowledging their power, then, please, to the left, to the left. Take this as a health warning. If you start beating your chest so hard it becomes concave, my guy, you will only have yourself to blame.”  I smiled and glanced back at Aminah as she smirked, gave me a thumbs- up in encouragement. I turned back to the mic. “Now, with all health and safety concerns addressed I think I’m clear to tell you that I wanna talk about the concept introduced by tonight’s theme song by our patron saint D’Angelo, with ‘Playa Playa.’ That’s right. We’re talking about The Player. Did you like how I said it? Like it was a monster or some shit.”  “Kiki,” Aminah admonished within her capacity of producer and person who had to make sure I adhered to university broadcast guidelines so we didn’t risk our show being taken off the air.  I grinned. “Sorry. What I’m about to issue is a PSA. A warning. It is crucial for our well-being, sisters. Now see, many people think of ‘player’ as a gender-exclusive term. It’s a guy smooth with his tongue . . . in a couple different ways. Don’t act shy, you know what I mean. This is a safe space, girls. Let your savagery unleash. We are red-blooded women and we have needs, okay?”  Aminah laughed as she clicked her fingers above her head like she was at a spoken word recital. “Go ahead, sis. Tell it.”  I allowed my voice to slip into an exaggerated spoken word cadence, low and silken. “It’s a guy with so much sauce he has you swimming in it. Has your head spinning in it so you don’t know which way is up and which way is down—so you don’t even realize when he has you trippin’ for him.”  Aminah let out a loud hum as if she was in church, and I turned to see her, eyes closed, hand on heart, shaking her head as if she was receiving the word.  I stifled a laugh, rolled my eyes, and turned back to my mic, my voice becoming somber now, morphing into my ten-o’clock-news-bulletin voice, “But allow me to ask a question, my sisters. If he is a player, are we games? Or are we consoles to be used to help a guy navigate his way to being a man? Our buttons being pressed, being turned this way and that for his progression?”  Aminah hummed louder and raised her hands in praise.  I leaned closer to the mic even though no one could see me, because I knew the effect would be felt, the punctuation would ripple through the airwaves. “Aren’t you tired of mandem using your hearts for sport? I ask this now because I heard there’s a new player in town. And I won’t lie, he’s kind of cute too. A snack. A beverage. But you guys know that too much coffee is bad for you, right? Keeps you up all night, bad for your heart, makes you thirsty, and occasionally, if you’re extra sensitive, gives you the shits. This analogy went left, but you catch my drift.  “In a similar manner, there is a tall, hot, dark presence in Whitewell that has our ladies moving hectic. Giving them the shakes, making them snappy, dehydrated, and irritable. Be wary of the Wasteman of Whitewell, sisters. It’s cuffing season and feelings are infectious, I get it, but get your immune system up, take your shots (I myself am partial to bourbon), listen to Meghan Thee Stallion twice a day, and take your antihistamines to ward off the dusty. Because you know what I think, ladies? It’s time to flip the term ‘player’ on its head. This thing called romance ain’t a one-player game. Let’s reclaim our power.  “Wastemen are aptly called so because they waste our time. Waste our energy. On purpose. They sell us dreams and then take them away, so we end up chasing them as if it was ever a reality. They’re bad at communication, texting us good morning every day and then leaving us in the cold of blue ticks when we ask them where they’re at, leading to us jumping to conclusions, and let me tell you, that kind of cardio isn’t good for our hearts. It takes us away from us. Wastemen are thieves. What was it that my king D’Angelo said in his parable of a bop ‘Playa Playa’? They rob you of your glow, queens. See, that time and energy that they take from us could be used for realizing our power. Stop us from seeing how beautiful we are from soul through to skin, because he has you wondering why you aren’t enough. Now ain’t that a bitch? If you ask me, I think we should be bigger bitches.  “Sisters, I’m not suggesting anything radical. Just that we take our control. The game will always be the game, but make sure you’re at least an equal player. At best, a better one. Call it karmic restitution. Make them sweat you and don’t ever let them catch you slippin’. Until next time, stay sweet, ladies. Yours always, K.” Chapter 3


“Ms. Banjo! You’re early.”  I smiled as I entered Dr. Miller’s office. She dusted some brownie crumbs off her fingers. Somehow, the action was elegant, in line with the dreads wrapped up in an ochre headscarf, large crescent bronze earrings, and the brown-plum sheen of her lips. I plopped myself on the chair by her desk and threw my satchel on the floor. “Which is why I’m your favorite student.”  “It’s not appropriate to have favorites.”  “So you admit it, I am your favorite.” I passed her the flat white I’d picked up with my latte from the campus coffee shop, Beanz.  My most hallowed female authority figure, aside from Beyoncé and my mother, adjusted tortoise-shell frames on a flawlessly composed blank face. “I’m technically not allowed to take anything from students. I absolutely cannot drink this.”  She motioned at me with a single finger—capped by a gleaming, wine- colored nail and bearing a hefty, intricately designed silver ring— instructing me to put the coffee down on the desk. “It’s wonderful how I just found a flat white on my desk, randomly. Can’t let it go to waste.” She picked it up, took a sip, smiled. “Thank you.”  I hitched up a shoulder. “For what?” I held up my coffee cup and smashed it against hers in a toast to tutor-student boundaries.  Dr. Miller and I weren’t thrown together as a mentor-mentee duo by chance. I studied politics, media, and culture and she taught an intertextual media and culture module. She also happened to be the only one of the two Black lecturers in the entire institution of Whitewell who looked after undergraduates. The second was a man who once gave a speech to the boys of Blackwell during Black History Month on how the best way to avoid trouble was not to look like trouble (no saggy trousers, no looking Black). Earlier statement revised: Dr. Serena Miller was the only Black lecturer in my university.  I decided that she had to be my mentor in my first year, in my third seminar. During a class discussion on the cultural power of social media crossed with art, where I cited Lemonade as an example, a Barbour-wearing boy called Percy, who I once heard describe the class as community service for him (“the diversity stuff looks good on the CV”), interrupted to inform me that the visual album was an example of “convoluted fluff pandering to identity politics and contributing nothing to society at large.” I opened my mouth to call him an uncultured, narrow-minded, racist prick but thought better of it and instead practiced some breathing exercises I’d learned from my favorite YouTube lifestyle channel, The Chill Life with CoCo.  “Don’t you feel like” (Deep breath . . . inhale . . . exhale . . .) “you’re speaking from a rather limited sphere?” (Seriously, Kiki, deep breath . . . exhale.)  “As a white male, your culture is the norm” (Am I speaking weirdly slowly?) “and it’s likely that that is the reason why you” (are a fucking prick) “think that any deviation from that is lesser than. Why you think anything ‘other than’ is ‘lesser than.’”  The class fell silent and Percy went precisely the color of his confectionery counterpart from M&S. Dr. Miller, her face ostensibly expressionless, was a stoically impartial monarch, dangling earrings adding gravitas, bronze lips pressed in a manner that almost obscured the slight flick in them. The curve would have approximated pride or amusement, or both, if I didn’t know better.  She cleared her throat and continued, “I think what Ms. Banjo is trying to suggest is that what you’re saying aligns with what critics unable to think outside of the confines of their self-imposed racial rigidity would say. And that racial rigidity often leads to bigotry and prejudiced opinions. Let’s be wary of that.”  Dr. Miller paused before continuing, giving us the space needed to digest that she had, indeed, used the language of academia to call Percy a racist prick, her intelligence and expertise protecting her from lawsuit and sanction. “However, it does open up a discussion,” she said, walking the breadth of the lecture hall, pen tapping against her palm. “What do we think? Has social media led society closer to a post-racial society? An interracial society? Or are we more segregated than ever?” She opened it up to the class, but not before throwing me, the only Black girl in the tutorial, a sturdy, small smile.  Although we had an African-Caribbean Society through Blackwell, Whitewell College was still a liberal arts university in pastoral southern England and, therefore, a minority set to task in validating the use of the term “diverse” in the prospectus. We were a world unto our own when concentrated together at a student house party, with the lights turned off, elbow-to-elbow and butt-to-groin in constricted corridors. But in actuality we were scattered across the university, across disciplines, across years, all feeling like rebels because instead of straight-up professional degrees (law, economics, whatever-will-put-you-in-corporate-wear-and-a-9-to-5-and- make-immigrant-parent-sacrifices-worth-it), we mixed it up with funky minors that our parents thought frivolous.  We thought we were so edgy with our interdisciplinary courses, our economics and art history degrees that made African parents wonder where they went wrong, but the price we paid for being such deviant rebels, in pursuit of higher education, was being even more minoritized, in a space where we were already pretty marginalized. So, when Dr. Miller looked at me that day, I knew she was saying we had to stick together, knew that I had to write a letter asking to be switched from my assigned tutor, who’d informed me they were relieved that they could call me Kiki instead of my full name, Kikiola. Due to the kind of benevolent racism you can count on —your white friend trying to set you up with the only Black guy she knows —I didn’t need to plead too much before my wish was granted, Dr. Miller becoming my personal tutor and quickly part of my university survival kit.  “So.” Dr. Miller reclined in her seat. “You are objectively one of the highest-achieving students that I teach—”  “You can just say the—”  She released a small, demure smile. “Well, you’ve had a little competition lately—”  Impossible. “That’s funny, Dr. Miller.”  Dr. Miller’s face betrayed no evidence that she was joking. I straightened. I took the 102 version of her class because it was the only module where (a) I was being taught by someone who saw me, and (b) I could talk about Aunt Viv being replaced in Fresh Prince and relate it to racialized desirability politics. It was where I thrived, where my mind felt both at ease and challenged and where I also just so happened to virtually get straight firsts in every assignment. Dr. Miller’s revelation was humbling.  Her smile broadened at the look on my face, and she continued, “This is actually what I wanted to talk about. As you know, NYU Brooks Media and Art Institute is our sister college and every year every professor can nominate one second-year student to qualify for their summer program of choice. It looks good on the CV, will boost you in the hunt for grad jobs, and it’s a chance to experience something new, to expand your horizons. I know their pop media program is perfect for you. Candidates will be paid and given the opportunity to rotate departments at a media house that includes audio, digital, television, and print. Many people on the program went on to work at the very organizations they shadowed. Have you heard of Temilola Lawal?”  I swallowed. “Um, the culture journalist who just became the youngest person to win a Pulitzer for feature writing?”  Dr. Miller smiled. “She went on the program. I think you’d be a great candidate.”  “Wait, Dr. Miller, are you serious?”  It was too much—of what I wanted to do, exactly what I had been waiting for—and it filled my chest till my giddiness spilled out of my mouth. The summer before university I missed out on a competitive media internship in London due to reasons I liked to file under personal. Too many feelings had hampered my ability think straight last time, my mind was too messy, and my heart was too unharnessed. I had myself together this time. I was collected, controlled. In other words, I wasn’t about to fuck this up.  Dr. Miller’s eyes glinted. “I’m not joking. Jokes are rather tedious, don’t you think? I’ll email you the forms. Deadline is January. Now, I know you’ll do fine with the essay part of the application. It’s about the power of media and your personal connection to it, but you will also need an exceptional media-related, extra-curricular project—”  “Oh, easy—”  “And I know you already have that with Brown Sugar,” Dr. Miller continued with a pointedly quirked brow, “which is wonderful, but your task concerns”—she clicked on her laptop with a red polished nail and pushed her glasses up—“‘Building, creating, or growing. The candidate will need to pursue and achieve tangible growth of a media project or platform, by diversifying the format or by building from scratch.’ It’s about evolving what you already have and recording how you did it. A project plan—”  “Brown Sugar is already one of the most popular media platforms on campus—”  “Your base is commendable. Decent. Loyal. I’ve seen the numbers. But there is still room to grow. It’s a great show but there’s plenty of ways to improve it, if you want to. It might be worth doing some sort of survey to find out why the people who don’t listen, don’t listen.”  I nodded and sat up. “Okay. I mean, of course, I’ll do what I can to lift up the ratings, but surely, it’s not my job to chase listeners, right? They’re either with me or they’re not. I can’t contort myself into something I’m not —”  Dr. Miller smiled, a genteel glimmer of a sword. It told me she was about to sweetly read me, drag me, or both. “Kikiola.” The force of my full name informed me that I was right. “Media is about staying true to your voice, of course, but it’s also about interacting with the people you’re communicating with. It’s not about talking at, it’s talking to, with.  “What do people want? How can it align with what you’re trying to achieve? Are you generating conversation or just providing didactic answers? You may have blind spots—in fact, I know that you do— especially when it comes to opening up to other people.”  I usually didn’t mind Dr. Miller exercising the operative word in “personal tutor,” but for some reason, in this instance, it jarred. Couldn’t she just awkwardly ask me how I’m coping with university and shove some pamphlets about student alcoholism my way, like a regular one?  “Dr. Miller, I work in groups all the time in seminars!”  Dr. Miller raised a brow. “Kiki, when you’re put in a group, you don’t give space for other people’s ideas.”  “But in our mass media presentation Harry suggested that books should have the ability to be ingested through a serum we inject. It was worrying. Also we need to talk about the counselling system in this school—”  “It was out-of-the-box thinking. Why don’t we question traditional modes of information? It was worth discussing, even if you did conclude that it lent itself too easily to eugenics and indoctrination.” Her lips were a wry slant. “Another issue is that you do all the work and divide it among the group.”  “I do n—”  “I know your voice, and I hardly think a Patricia Hill Collins quote is coming from Percy. Kiki, I really want to be able to put you forward for this program. You’re the perfect candidate. But I also want to see all you can be for it, and that means challenging yourself. Brown Sugar can be bigger, and I think that may include figuring out how you can work with the needs of your community.”  My shoulders slumped and I sat back in my chair. This wasn’t a stipulation, this was a glitch, a catch, like, yes you have free tickets to a Drake concert but you have to listen to white dudebros rapping in your ear at a party for three hours straight beforehand. The formula worked. People wrote in and I responded—how else could I work with my community?  I sighed. “Dr. Miller, I hope I don’t sound arrogant here, but I know what I’m doing with Brown Sugar. I’m good at it. Can’t I figure out some other way to boost ratings?”  Dr. Miller’s coppery-brown tinted lips pulled into a subtle smirk. “Kiki, it’s not arrogant to know what you’re good at. It’s arrogant to think you don’t need to grow. Find out what more you can do for your people. I know you’ll find a creative way to do it. I mean, every seminar you find a way to call Percy the same thing using different words.” She sipped her coffee, hiding her tongue in her cheek.  I tried to balance my elation that she believed in me with the fact that she was basically asking me to do the impossible. Brown Sugar was my space. Yeah, I shared it with other people, but I was safe behind it. Inviting other people’s opinions meant it was likely to fall out of my control, become messier. It meant I could mess up. I wasn’t in the habit of doing that.  Dr. Miller smiled widely. “What a sweet look of torment on your face. Look, I have something fun that could help. The student in my other seminar—”  Ah, my nemesis.  “—is working on a new film. I’m their personal tutor too. They came to me asking if I thought the film was a good idea, and I do. They’re just missing something, and I think talking to you would help them. Likewise, I think you talking to them might help you come up with ideas to reach people. They’re personable, friendly—”  “Dr. Miller, are you saying that I’m n—”  “You’re a delight, Kikiola, but people use consultants in media all the time. This student is bright and sharp. They’re also new, so I think you would be able to help them settle in. This person is different from your fellow seminar students, they’re more . . . your wavelength. You’ll work well together—”  “Oh, so they’re Black?”  Dr. Miller ignored me, possibly because answering that question would have risked her suspension. “I’ll email you some of their work. I think you’ll find it interesting.”  I rubbed the bridge of my nose, prickling a little at my phantom academic nemesis. I wondered if she could pull off sideboob? Probably. It was tragic, perhaps, but school was my thing, my skill at it an anchor, and now, apparently, I needed a helper to achieve my goals.  Dr. Miller’s amber-brown eyes filled with warmth as she assessed me. “I want you to go to New York for this program, Kikiola, and I really want to be able to give you the best shot of getting there. Give it a chance.”  I wasn’t sure if Dr. Miller really liked me or secretly hated my guts. Why go out of my way to entangle myself with other people when I was doing fine by myself? This was my fault for choosing a liberal arts university in England. Who does that? It’s not even the norm and now, because I didn’t choose to do biochemistry or law like a good Nigerian daughter, I had to suffer through some kind of holistic abstract learning experience with a stranger?! Put me through a tort tournament, please. Maybe this was actually my parents’ fault. Their understanding and relative liberalness gave me the freedom to opt for a degree I’d enjoy rather than one that would set their mind at ease. Quite shortsighted of them to value my happiness. Being a lawyer wouldn’t even have been that bad. Sure, my soul might have become a calcified husk, but I would look great in a formal pencil skirt. I have a great butt.  “The deadline for the application is January. You have plenty of time. I’m looking forward to what you come up with for Brown Sugar.” Dr Miller silenced any potential questions by putting her coffee down for the last time. “That’s enough for today. Enjoy your student party tonight. And thank you for not bringing me a flat white.”  “It wasn’t my pleasure at all.”  She lifted her empty cup in salute. Chapter 4


An Afrobeat song was playing, skipped beats and melodies that smoothed around waist and hip, cajoling them to come out, come play. I wanted to come out, come play—or at the very least not think about New York or some irritant getting in the way of it. A rugged, low, sexy West African mandem voice pleading with babygehl not to kill him with that load she’s carrying (the load, if it wasn’t clear, is her butt) was pulsating through the speakers and mingling with the crisp autumn night. Aminah and I, positioned as the babyghels, moved through it, hips swaying, heels clicking against the asphalt as we walked the path to our gritty student bar, shabby on the outside, but the hottest rap video club on the inside. To us, anyway. Everything we did as Blackwellians, we did as a pastiche of the luxe life.  Aminah and I walked with linked arms into the party, through the small, loose crowd that was kissing, laughing, smoking by the open back door of the little room annexed behind the Student Union. It parted to make way for us. Aminah and I weren’t popular or unpopular, we just were. Though previous experience had made me wary of making friends, Aminah and I formed a natural unit.  We were placed in the same hall in first year and met four days after we moved in. We were taking out our bins at the same time one morning, both in our PJs—which happened to both be jersey shorts and tank tops—hair wrapped in satin scarves. We gave each other polite, silent nods and smiles, acknowledging the intrinsic kinship derived from makeshift pajamas and Black womanhood, when a toga-clad drunken straggler who looked like his name was Chad, or possibly Brad, swayed past us in the courtyard, releasing fumes of alcohol. Like we could sense what was coming, we exchanged a glance. He smirked at us and called out, “Oi, Destiny’s Child! Shake what your mama gave ya! Show me if I’m ready for this jelly!” As if in rehearsal, both of us immediately dropped our trash bags and started cussing him out in sweet, tight harmony. ChadBrad started to sway away, startled, alarmed, but alcohol had slowed down his motion, so he had ended up staggering like a poisoned rat. This allowed Aminah to step forward and yank the hem of his toga, ignoring his yells and leaving him naked bar a pair of boxers. It was then I realized that I was in love. She smiled and I immediately beckoned at her to toss the toga to me. She did, trusting my instincts, probably encouraged by our riveting rendition of “Who the fuck do you think you are, you prick” earlier. I caught the reeking bedsheet between my thumb and forefinger and tossed it into the giant wheelie bins outside our building. We both immediately ran inside the glass doors, falling over ourselves, wheezing, grabbing each other for stability. She said to me that day, “You’re my friend by force now. I really don’t have the energy to go and make any more, so shall we just see how this goes?” And so we were friends by force, and I was grateful—I wasn’t sure I would have found the courage to be her friend without her declaration. I’d come to university bruised.  Now, we stood outside of the cliques and the Blackwell industrial complex. We were a core unto ourselves, Brown Sugar lending us immunity from being too involved, and because of that, we found ourselves acting as intermediaries, ambassadors, and impartial judges when called upon. This found us some respect, if not exactly warmth. It worked for me: I didn’t need to be too involved. I didn’t need a group; I didn’t want to be entangled in friendships that were just ways to run away from loneliness. I had Aminah and I had Brown Sugar, and that was my community. I wanted to get my degree, secure my future and leave. That didn’t mean that I couldn’t have a good time along the way.  The bar was steamy and dusky, smelling like Hugo Boss, fruity body sprays, Brazilian bundles toasted straight, and the chemically floral-scented mélange of hair products. Grease, spritz, gel, and mousse used to primp to perfection. Amber and umber lights lit up the dark and saw twilight and sunset finding a home in heavily moisturized brown skin, making it glow with delicate force. The music seemed to make the walls of the old university bar pulsate, like it wasn’t already thrumming with the energy of around a hundred-odd kids overstuffed into its every crevice and cranny, waved on cheap vodka and dark liquor and arrogance, the kind of arrogance you get intrinsically when you’re young and fine. Guys with sharp shape- ups. Girls in dresses that flaunted their curves. Both feeling confident that they were likely to find someone to feel them as much as they were feeling themselves.  This was our kingdom, where we came to unwind, escape, put our defenses down every Friday after a week of our housemates, Ellie and Harry, asking us where we were from-from. This wasn’t the main student union party, where we had to have our shoulders braced and brows pre- arched as certain people who were so used to having access to the whole world couldn’t comprehend the cordoning off of one little peninsula and dropped “nigga” like the “-a” wouldn’t curdle into an “-er” in their mouths when they were rapping along to Kanye. If we got into a fight, it would be us that got kicked out, like we were the ones who started it—like this particular fight hadn’t started a long, long time ago and it was proven, irrevocable, historical fact that we weren’t the ones to throw the first punch. Nah. None of that at FreakyFridayz.

When I first arrived at Whitewell, the only events we had were overstuffed house parties in the home of a grad student who was far too old to be rubbing shoulders (etc.) with freshers, a few town hall meetings, where people just discussed what happened at the last house party, and a Black History Month talent show that consisted mainly of us having to sit through mandem’s mediocre raps and bad spoken word. We were the only society on campus with no demarcated space. No land, no stake. The RugbySoc had the bar on Wednesday afternoons, the Young Conservatives had their afternoon tea parties on Thursdays, and the Whitewell Knights had their gin and (C)oke nights there on Tuesdays.  Early on, Aminah had dragged me to a Blackwell Society meeting. (“Let’s just try to be social. For once. See what happens. Kofi said they’re ordering pizza today. If you break out in a rash, I promise I’ll carry you away on my back.”). I sat in the back of the lecture hall, legs hunched up against the seat in front of me, listening to the president, Zack Kingsford, half-English, half-Nigerian, fully a prick, fully a snack, asking for donations to rent a place in town for a party (fifty each, far more than would have been needed). When a voice called out, “Why do all that shit when we could throw a club night?” I thought that someone else had the precise thought I had at the exact same time, until I realized that everybody in the lecture hall was staring at me and that the voice had sounded eerily like my own. I didn’t come to these things. I barely spoke to anybody outside of the confines of Brown Sugar and so I guess people were shocked to hear me. I was shocked.  Zack stared at me, his eyebrow with a single slit in it arched with curiosity. Zack was president, reigning Monarch of the Mandem, and your position in Blackwell was meant to be defined by whether you wanted to be fucked by him, loved by him, or friends with him. I wanted none of the above and it confused him. He looked up at me from his podium.  “Kiki Banjo. I see you’ve taken a break from bashing men on your cute show to come join us today. You wanna come down? State your position?”  I smiled. “I’m good. You can come up, though.” A snigger rippled through the crowd and I felt Aminah settle into her chair next to me, whispering, “Here we fucking go.” We were only two semesters in but we were already spiritually married and Aminah knew that now I had just exposed myself, there wasn’t any way I was going to back down. She also undoubtedly found Zack’s discomfort delicious.  He was a second-year incumbent—technically against the bylaws of university societies, but who was watching? Zachary Kingsford was used to giving orders, he never received them. He thought his name gave him jurisdiction over all. And technically it did. A middling business studies and sports science student, his place at a top liberal redbrick university was assured by the fact that he was a boon to the university athletic department, a star in the university rugby leagues—that and his daddy was a very rich benefactor. Zack was not smart, but he was slick with words, bolstered by nepotism. He was the perfect politician. He smiled something strained in my direction, hazel eyes glinting with irritation. I’m sure it hurt. He preferred conversations with girls who giggled and said he “kinda looked like Drake.” He was so gassed on that he’d changed his ProntoPic username to CognacDaddy á la ChampagnePapi.  “No problem.” But the vein popping on his temple stated otherwise. “Nothing wrong with a woman being on top. Actually, I prefer it.” The offense was in his predictability.  I rolled my eyes as the sniggers got louder. This was why I never liked to get involved with petty collegiate political shit. It was so needlessly tedious. I nodded slowly. “That was cute. Rehearsing for your future sexual harassment case at the suit-wearing drone job your daddy got for you?”  Zack’s tan cheeks flushed deep. The room erupted, low and rumbling, and Aminah uttered a proud, adulatory “Killa Keeks.” When the noise died down, I managed to speak before he did, still reclining in my chair, boot hitched on the back of the empty seat in front of me.  “All I’m saying is that we don’t need to spend money when we should have our own space for free. Every month on a Friday, we throw a club night. Obviously, open for all, but it will be thrown by us, for us. On our terms. Our music. No bouncers saying we’re not dressed right. Or there are too many of us in a group. We’re treated as guests here. People to fill up quotas. Like they’re doing us a favor. Let’s make ourselves at home.”  The room thundered. So did Zack, but in an entirely different way. Even though he was several feet away from me, I could see he was rattled. Something about his discomfort turned me on. Zack wasn’t used to acting like a president. He’d never really had a platform beyond looking hot. During his second election—the one I was around for—he’d taken a bunch of freshers out to an R&B night (the only one in town) and bought them shots, which helped him win by a landslide. In another context this might have triggered an intervention by the UN, but here, in the instance of collegiate politics, it was a tale of rightful victory, one of generosity, real love for the People. Zack was here for image, not real action.  I could see Zack attempt the math in his head. Public rejection of my idea would look bad. He swallowed awkwardly, nodded. “I hear you. You’ve raised some valid points.”  Oh. I hadn’t realized it was going to be that easy.  “All those in favor of Kiki Banjo taking charge of this project—” Zack boomed across the room.  I froze. “Wait, what? No, no. No, no, no.”  Zack grinned at me widely. Prick. He was smarter than I thought. He was deflecting, hoping that putting the focus back on to me would mean that he wouldn’t have to follow through with it.  “—say yeaaaaaaayahhhhhh.” His voice swept low and deep and picked up at the end of his sentence like this was a call-and-response rap song and not an impromptu appointment into his cabinet.  I started to panic. “This is your job. This doesn’t even count as a proper vote! Whatever happened to democratic integrity?!” My voice was drowned out by the overwhelming sound of an entire lecture hall—around 150 of my peers—saying “yeeeeeahyah.” I swore under my breath. Zack, the bitch, had smiled and winked at me, arms spread wide as he bowed sarcastically. “Your job now, queen.” And because I was Nigerian, a chronic overachiever, and proud as shit, I accepted. And, if I said so myself, I killed it: FreakyFridayz became the hottest night on campus.

It was bustling now and loud, but despite the raucousness, the bellow of “Oi. Tia and Tamera!” rang clear and true. Only one person used that nickname for us—due to Aminah and I being as inseparable as twins, though we lacked the syndicated sitcom we obviously deserved. Sure enough, a few seconds later our boy Kofi intercepted us. Kofi was a business student by day, and FreakyFridayz DJ by night. He transitioned from old school bops to fresher beats later in the night, often slipping in his own creations from his side hustle as a bedroom producer.  He bent down to kiss me on both cheeks, then reached for Aminah’s hand to press it to his lips. Kofi’s full-time, 24-7 calling was to feen for my best friend. She rolled her eyes and shook her head, playing her role, swallowing her smile, giving him a little to savor but not enough to commit. Their relationship was one of push and pull, cat and mouse, where one was never really sure who was the cat and who was the mouse at any given time. Kofi was a cute, well-liked Ghanaian prince from south London and Aminah was a Nigerian princess from west. It was a Pan-African diaspora fairy tale waiting to happen, one for the ages, a pending peace treaty for the continuous Jollof Wars, the West African cousin conflict that raged at weddings and birthday parties (“Basmati or plump? I heard you guys put nutmeg in yours; sorry, is it dessert?”). But Aminah was a fellow stush Yoruba princess and, as such, ascribed to our own particular brand of feminism: a man had to earn attention, so when he got it, he cherished it.  I cast an eye around the party, readjusting the chain of my bag on my shoulder. “What’s it saying tonight, Kof?”  Kofi let out an easy grin, looking directly at Aminah. “On mute till you guys pulled up.”  Aminah tilted her head, her wavy tresses falling further down her shoulder. She stepped forward, gently gripping his chin. “So, you missed the sound of my voice?”  Kofi smirked. “The sound of your voice, the sight of your face . . .” His eyes dropped to her lips. Aminah rolled her eyes, pushing his face away as Kofi laughed. I cleared my throat. I loved them both but the sexual tension was getting stuck in my throat. Secondhand sexual tension has a kind of tangy aftertaste.  Kofi glanced back at me, his smile more affable, less besotted. “Nah, seriously, been waiting for you. Can’t start my set without my girls—”  I quirked a brow and smiled. “What you mean is, you can’t start your set without asking me if you can play more than one Blaq Kofi original tonight. Right?”  The deal was that FreakyFridayz would be a collaboration between Brown Sugar and the Blackwell Society. I was in charge of sorting the music and events, and Blackwell was on logistics.  Kofi grinned. “Sis. This is the one. I mean it. You’ll love it. Have I ever let you down?”  I reached up to squeeze his cheek. “That time you tried to set me up with your finance bro cousin who said ‘Females like you’ in conversation—”  Kofi rose his hands up in surrender. “That was my bad. Vincent drives an Audi and is always in Dubai and you’re kind of fancy to me, so I just thought—”  I smiled. “Kofi, I’m playing, you know I love your stuff.” And I did; it was spacy and electronic but still somehow soulful, still somehow euphoric. “But if we play it now it’s not gonna get the attention it deserves. People are waved and they’re just going to hear something that isn’t the new Burna and be pissed. The atmosphere has to be right. Let me play it on my show next week, get people familiar, and then you can play it at the next FreakyFridayz—”  “My G.” Kofi gave me a goofy grin, put his hands together, and bowed before me. He turned to Aminah. “Your girl is a genius.”  Aminah smirked. “Obviously. I only keep company with greatness.”  Kofi bopped closer to Aminah and she shot him a sly smile as he said, “Is that a compliment?”  “It’s a challenge.”  Just like she’d written, Kofi swiftly, gently, reached out for her arm. “Come, queen, let me treat you to a beverage before my set. I tell you my five-year plan, you tell me yours and I’ll see where I can fit in.” I grinned as Aminah threw me a knowing look while Kofi led her to the bar, her arm looped through his. This was my cue to resume my post as Chief Tone Regulator of FreakyFridayz.  Chapter 5


“Did you see her walk in just now? Fuming.”  As I was about to situate myself in my usual corner, where I could oversee without participating, two Blackwell girls—Bible Study Babes— walked past, voices gleeful.  “I know. Bless. This is what happens when you don’t approach relationships spirit first. It’s sad. Poor thing.” There was a respectable pause before true gossip thirst was revealed. “Let’s go see.”  I slowed in my tracks. While I often let disruptions diffuse and dissipate on their own—a little tension helped to thicken the passion and excitement in the air—it was a delicate balance, and a sleight of hand (or a slap of hand) could contaminate the whole vibe and bring it to an abrupt end.  Just as I moved to follow the girls in the direction of the potential source of drama—was it a frenemy fight, a ting tussle?—a strong scent of reality- star-branded perfume, hair spray, and distilled hateration wafted past my nostrils, swiftly followed by a sickeningly syrupy voice saying, “Oh, hun, you must be lost or something: this is our spot.”  I turned to the left of me to see precisely what I’d expected to see: Simi Coker in terror mode. She was stood in front of a girl I knew to be a First Year, who, along with three of her friends, had made the mistake of occupying one of the shabby, beat-up tan leather sofas that comprised a booth. Due to the fact that this wasn’t actually a high-end lounge but a gritty student bar, it wasn’t technically possible to reserve a booth, but this was irrelevant to Simi, who believed she owned it by virtue of being ex- president and self-appointed Boss Bitch of Blackwell. (It was on her ProntoPic bio—“Ex-President of Whitewell College ACS, Boss Bitch of Blackwell, Booty & Brains”—lest we got confused.) And the fact that she had sat there, week after week, sipping Malibu and pineapple with her security detail (the four specifically selected girls who were interchangeable besties).  The First Year blinked and immediately jumped up from the sofa, yanking her black, crushed-velvet, body-con dress down, and immediately gestured to her squad to do the same. They grabbed plastic cups and hitched bags on shoulders as the First Year said, “Oh shit, my bad, Simi. I didn’t realize,” with deference. Although this girl was only a month and a half into university life, she knew what Simi worked hard to establish: she had authority on campus.  Having had a taste of the power and loving its tang, Simi’d transferred her legacy from the political office to social media, and concentrated all her clout in The TeaHouse, a forum she had launched that kept all the Black caucus up to speed on which events and house parties were coming up. It also—and this was crucial—functioned as a gossip machine that spilled high-grade, steaming Campus Ceylon, mainly revealing who was Cuffed Up (usually proven by a blurry picture taken at Nandos) and who had been caught cheating (usually proven by a blurry picture taken at Nandos). Simi Coker could make or break you. Naturally, with me being asocial, she hated me. I represented everything she was against. I offered romantic cleanup while her business was situated in romantic mess, and my platform happened to be as big as hers. Both our voices held sway and she saw me as her only known threat.  Simi smiled, shimmering lids batting, before she slid a smug look to her posse. “It’s okay, babes. You weren’t to know.” Her voice was a sugar and wasabi dip.  This wasn’t any of my business, and I wasn’t in the mood to face Simi. I was on a mission—Disturbance Detection—and yet, despite myself, I snorted.  Simi turned a fraction, bum-length water waves swishing elegantly. Simi, of course, was beautiful, the kind of beautiful that had always been told it was beautiful: smooth butterscotch skin, with a sweetness that didn’t quite seem to sink into her personality.  “Kiki.” Her hand was flicked out, a Gucci number hanging off the crook of her arm, her Unfriendly Black Hottie energy dialled to ten. “Can I help you? Is there a reason you’re minding my business instead of yours as a pretend club manager?”  I sighed and smiled. “Funny you talk about people minding their business when you literally have a gossip porn website. Didn’t you split up three couples last week?”  Simi rolled her eyes. “I’m a truth teller. It’s my duty as leader in our community.”  “Uh-huh, and we thank you for your service, Sly News—but as a leader, could you maybe be less of an agbaya to the First Years—”  Simi’s smile froze on her lips, swiftly translating the Yoruba for “bully.” Her eyes narrowed as she eked out a smile that was uniquely bellicose in its beauty. “Me? Agbaya? I’m as gracious as can be. Do you see me talking about how your braids and your nose ring look dated like you’re tryna do Edgy Black Girl by force and you should live a little and get some bundles? No. Did I call you Poetic Injustice? No!”  I grinned to myself. Do I use questions as a means of passive-aggressive attack?! Yes!  I bent my voice to match her faux sororal sweetness. “Thank you so much for your restraint, Simi. I feel it. I appreciate it. And, I mean, it’s not like I said that your leopard-print body-con with those shoes makes you look like a forty-five-year-old Real Housewife of Lekki married to an oil- and-gas man who takes his ring off every Friday night. . . . We’re on the same page!”  Simi’s face froze as if she’d taken injectables like the fictional Lekki Housewife. As she went to reply I cut in. “Simi, FreakyFridayz is supposed to be an open space. They’re freshers. You remember what it’s like. I mean I get that it was a while ago for you but—”  “Settle down.” Simi narrowed her strip-lashed eyes. “I’m a year above you—”  “It’s hard. The least we can do is let them know that they can come here and turn up without being terrorized for a ratty sofa.”  I glanced at Head Fresher, stood frozen in the booth, eyes wide—stuck in stasis, trying to decide whether it was safe or not to move. “I like your dress.”  Head Fresher released a small, hesitant but pleased smile and tugged at her dress, self-consciously. “Th-thanks. Um, I love your show by the way. Your ‘Fresh So Clean’ episode where you gave fresher tips on dating and broke down the kinds to avoid? Lifesaver. Stopped me double-texting a guy who called me the wrong name when we were making out.”  I murmured something about being glad it helped, because although I was comfortable behind a mic, the spotlight made me uneasy in my skin, something I had a knack for forgetting until I was under it. Inconvenient. I cleared my throat and turned to Simi, who was still, her face prettily blank, but I saw the wheels turning. Luckily my social life was quiet enough to deprive her of ammunition. I was safe. Even with this knowledge, I still felt a chill that almost impressed me.  After a few moments she nodded slowly, tilted her head to her squad. “Let’s go. Some postgrads invited me to a house party tonight. Might be more our level.”  Free now, I turned away from the small stir Simi had caused toward a tidal wave. Drama was mounting. And it was coming from a throng stood a few meters from me. A smile slipped out and my brows shot up as I approached. I knew I smelled something savage.  Malakai Korede. Or rather, Shanti Jackson. Our resident beauty blogging queen was standing in front of Malakai Korede, clapping in his face as she told him about himself, her lilac faux-fur cropped jacket falling off her shoulder, flicking her flowing ombre locks to the side dramatically as she read him. “Malakai, you need to explain what the fuck is going on. Do I have ‘mug’ written on my forehead or something? Is that why you think you can pour bullshit into me and I’ll allow it or what?! Let! Me! Know!”  Each word was punctuated by a clap, and yet Malakai, unlike any other guy in his position, didn’t look ruffled, didn’t retaliate, didn’t tell her she was moving mad. He watched her calmly, as he leaned against the wall, his eyes genuinely intent, like he was really listening to her. He was a developed player in the game, the final boss you encounter after defeating them all. He knew how to mimic a Good Guy so closely that to the untrained eye you wouldn’t be able to tell otherwise. He was a top tier knockoff, and obscenely, he looked good doing it.  He was dressed in a fitted white T-shirt that showed off strong clavicles perched on shoulders that were athletically broad, sloping deltoids that slid into arms that almost put my waist-to-hip ratio to shame, pronounced even underneath the denim jacket he was wearing over his top. A gold chain, which sat sublimely between delicate and thick, dipped into his shirt, glinting off his dark skin. He was a very well crafted, perfect uni boyfriend. Artisanal. This wasn’t a high-street mimicry of a Prada bag. No, Malakai Korede was like the Dior Saddle bag my auntie Wura had got me from her travels (a Turkish market) last year. If you looked closely, you would see that it actually read Dirr, but it was such good quality that its fakery was near undetectable.  Shanti, leader of the London Gyaldem, acrylics long, patience short, hair premium Peruvian, attitude premium south London, ran her eyes up and down Malakai’s form, and clacked gleaming claws in his face. “Nah, Malakai. I don’t know if you’ve forgotten who I am but allow me to reintroduce you. . . . I! Am! Not! The! One! To! Play! With!”  I couldn’t help but smile. He was trapped. Maybe my PSA had landed and our girls were recognizing the threat Malakai posed.  He watched her calmly and said something that could have been “I understand that.”  She paused for a second, momentarily thrown off by his placidity, before launching in again. “So if you ‘understand that,’ how can you tell me I have qualities of the kind of girl you see yourself with, and then next thing I know, I see your wrist on Chioma’s ProntoPic stories. How do we have the same qualities? The girl dresses like a bootleg Erykah Badu. She’s an Erykah Badon’t!”  My brows shot up as low jeers and cackles came from the gathering audience. That was a pun I’d used on my show once—but not in that context. As the crowd shifted, I saw that Chioma “Chi-Chi” Kene was stood next to Shanti, glowing and glowering with her waist-length, dirty-blond- brown faux dreads, and a septum piercing. Chi-Chi was head of the Incense and Almond Milk Babes, who I lovingly dubbed the Vegan Cupcakes. They ran the spoken word night, believed that vibes were a state of being, and optimistically brought cauliflower BBQ wings to summer cookouts. It was really a testament to Malakai’s wide-ranging appeal that he managed to attract two entirely different girls, especially since most of the guys that looked like Malakai said shit like “Yeah, Chi-Chi is fine as fuck, but I don’t know about those vegans, man. Where am I gonna take her, if I can’t take her Nandos? Stress.” I was grudgingly impressed.  I knew Malakai was different from most of the guys at the university, but this complicated it further. This man had range. He moved with so much style and flair that he had somehow caused Chi-Chi—one of the most chilled-out, zen girls on campus—to trip so hard for him that she was now rolling her eyes, sticking a wide-spread, heavily bangled, bejewelled hand in Shanti’s face. “Bitch, are your bundles sewn in too tight? Who are you talking to? Don’t you have some poop-diet tea to tout on the internet?”  Well, shit. Chioma might have been vegan but she had a taste for blood.  “Drammaaaa!” The voice of my best friend sang in soprano over some new Skepta, a signal that Kofi had taken over the booth. Aminah passed me a drink as she settled in beside me, leaning against the wall with her own. I assumed that both were courtesy of Kofi. I sipped at my whisky and Coke and ran my eyes across Malakai Korede’s form, his handsome face a midnight lake, barely a ripple despite the storm he had caused. I took a sip of my drink. “Yeah, and I think I know who the director is . . .”  Aminah cackled, shook her head slowly, and grinned. “What a demon!” She bit her lip and assessed him as the girls gesticulated in front of him. He was nodding intermittently but speaking very little. Aminah released a low sound of satisfaction. “Mm. A fine demon—”  His eyes flicked in my direction, like he knew where I was, and glinted sharply as he raised his glass to his lips. If I didn’t know better, I could have sworn he had tilted it in my direction. When he moved the cup away from his lips, I saw that they were slanted at a dangerous angle, a tiny smile I knew was directed at me. My breath hitched somewhere in my throat and before I could get it loose he had torn his gaze away from me, back to the irate ladies in front of him.  My heart had never been compelled into competitive sports by boys and yet here it was, acting like an Olympian, beating like its name was Serena. I’d worked hard to be immune to Wastemen, I’d taken my shots, but Malakai Korede was a new and evolved strain, one that could melt down the usual standard range Wasteman Detectors with the heat of a single glance. I’d done the right thing with my warning on the show. I wasn’t special. He didn’t know me and yet he was looking at me like he did. He wasn’t even turning anything on for the game, none of the R&B smoldering narrowed eyes My Guy utilized. This was just his look. The girls had been in more danger than I’d presumed.  I cleared my throat. “Demons are often fine, MiMi. That’s why they’re demons. They look like angels. But you gotta remember they were cast out of heaven for a reason.”  Aminah smiled. To my relief, she hadn’t noticed the silent exchange. “Alright, Phony Morrison—” My mouth sagged. “Excuse me?” My best friend sipped her drink and smirked. “Oh, you thought you were the only one with bars? Anyway, he’s a little too tall for me. A bit too lean. I like my men a little stockier. Me-sized.” Aminah was five foot three and Kofi was about five seven and thick with muscle. I nodded. “Uh-huh. Ghanaian too? A dimple? Obsessed with you? Is that your type?” Aminah shot me a flat look before turning back to the scene before us, pointedly ignoring me. Chi-Chi’s bangles were now adding percussion to Skepta’s north London growl, mingling with the rumbling grime beat, as she waved her hand in time with her words, punctuating whatever she was saying. Shanti shook her head, smiling sarcastically, arms folded across her ample cleavage, bolstered up in the V-neck of a bright yellow body-con dress. Aminah pulled a face. “Yikes. Those are two of the finest girls on campus. I’ve never seen anything like this. You gonna stop it before gold hoops, balayage inches, and kanekalon hair go flying? Before people start slipping on shea butter? The Vegan Cupcakes and the Baddies look like they’re about to square up to each other.” On either side of Chioma and Shanti stood loose crowds of their respective squads, conch piercings and culottes versus bundles and body- cons. At some point beyond this place the two cliques might merge, become one, conflate, but for now identities were distinct. They had to be, lest you got lost. At the moment they were just observing, sizing each other up, maybe laughing or rolling their eyes to add wind to jabs thrown, but I could sense the potential of a blowup. I slid my head to the side. “I don’t know yet. I kind of want to see how it plays out.” “Malakai, I don’t understand. Honestly, I don’t,” Chi-Chi was saying, “You take me to Root—” My brows shot up. I was right. The boy did have skills. Root was the only vaguely fancy vegan restaurant in town. They had cloth napkins. “We vibed, like I genuinely felt like we’d maybe met before in our past life—I told you that—and now I find out that you been taking this one to chicken mortuaries.” Aminah choked on her drink. “Is she talking about Nandos?”  I didn’t have a chance to reply because Shanti had stepped to Chioma’s face. “Babes, you better send some prayers up to your ancestors right now, tell your girls to burn up some incense or whatever the fuck you witches do, because let me tell you, you’re gonna need their help.”  Chioma laughed. “Cute. Omo, listen. I may be vegan but I eat bitches up for dinner. Don’t get confused.”  The crowd surrounding them erupted. I looked around to notice the audience for this episode of Love and Grime, Whitewell, had broadened out. The ripple effect was widening; it had escalated, was souring. Malakai had still barely said a word, like he wasn’t the one responsible for this mess. It made my blood boil, but I had no time for my wrath to focus and sharpen in his direction. A full-on fight was going to break out on my turf, and if I didn’t stop it no one else was politically neutral enough to.  Aminah turned to me, her big, darkly lined doe eyes made wider. “Now?”  “Yup,” I nodded.  I stepped forward just as Malakai finally deigned to speak. He pushed off against the wall he had been leaning against, put a hand on each of the ladies’ arms, and spoke to them at a decibel level I couldn’t catch. I paused, stepped back, and watched both girls immediately relax, their breathing slowing as Malakai spoke to them with an affable, casual face, as if a minute before the whole ecosystem of the party hadn’t been put into jeopardy. The belligerent looks on both women’s faces faded as they listened to him, their frowns slackening as they began to nod grudgingly, throwing each other wary looks of respect. Eventually, their tight, petty faces loosened enough to release smiles and jocular eye rolls, the three of them engaging in ostensibly friendly conversation for a few more moments before Shanti and Chioma hugged each other, smiled at Malakai, and then migrated to their respective tribes, rejoining the main body of the party.  My jaw almost sagged. That had never happened before. Not in our ecosystem. Crossing two girls? Malakai should have got eaten alive. I had no idea how he had managed to finesse that situation.  “Um,” Aminah’s voice piped up over a new Wizkid song. “What did I just witness? Did he just calm Brandy and Monica down? After his very cute yansh was on the line?”  “Jeez, Aminah—”  Aminah cackled filthily. “What? It’s right there, Kiki, I have eyes. He has bum. Nothing wrong with appreciation. Love the peng, hate the sinner—”  “Not a thing.”  “Totally a thing. As someone from a blended Christian and Muslim home, I am qualified to say it. It’s in the Koran and the Bible.”  I shrugged. “Okay, well. Pretty sure that’s double blasphemous.”  Aminah smiled. “No offense but you’re from a monoreligious background and therefore less cultured than I am. Anyway, how did he do that?”  I held still and sipped my drink as I watched Malakai immediately get distracted by one of his boys coming to greet him, hand claps and back slaps exchanged, palms sliding across each other and punctuated by a click, a universal mandem handshake, all smiling, white teeth glinting in the violet and pink lights. He was quickly joined by another one of his boys. He nodded, playfully squaring up, not missing a beat in the exclusive dance of Cool Boy Social Interactions. You couldn’t be taught the moves; it wasn’t something you learned. It was something that lived in you and was brought forth. He’d only been here about a month and somehow he was alpha of a crew. He was making a statement: he was comfortable, here. He was playing with me.  Malakai was slick, so silken in his movements, that when his gaze snatched in my direction again, it was so casual it took me a moment to realize that it was weird that he was looking at me like he was—the light in his eyes bounding in its deep dark setting, lips curved dangerously. It was a continuation of a conversation.  He mouthed “Hi” through lips that curled into something like a hook that curved into the bottom of my belly and yanked a sharp, searing feeling through it, right up into my chest. The corner of my mouth flicked up despite myself. This was slightly alarming. Was I smiling back? Why was I smiling? How did I stop?  I tore my gaze away from him, the feeling in my belly subsiding to a mere warm tingle, hoping that the break would force my smile to dissolve. When I glanced back again, he was still looking at me. His smile beamed something beautiful, something lethal, as white as the light you probably see when you die. This was apt, because I was sure I was going to. I couldn’t believe he’d caught me doing a double glance at him, like I was interested or something equally heinous. My face felt hot. But then he looked back to his friends, jumping back into conversation with them, like the silent exchange between us had happened in a suspended vacuum that existed outside of reality. Now he was back in his reality, where beautiful girls ran up to him and he smiled easily, politely. It wasn’t the same smile he gave me, though. It wasn’t the R&B smile.  “Um, ma’am, you just eye-fucked.” My best friend’s voice brought me around. Sound seemed to rush back in—rap, laughter, jeering, screeching, and the cheering for a dance battle going on in the corner all mingling with the heartbeat pounding in my ears.  I cleared my throat and shifted my feet on chunky-heeled ankle boots. “What?!”  Aminah’s shiny plum lips were spread apart in glee. “And it was hot too. The two of you, with your seductivitis eyes. Oozing lust.”  “First of all, gross. Secondly, I don’t know what you’re talking about. I just happened to be looking in his direction and he just happened to be looking in mine. What you just saw is literally just how eyes work. It’s biology.”  Aminah’s long, dark, mascaraed lashes narrowed into pincers as she shot me an incredulous look. “Oh? Sorry, Ma. Biology. Is it also biology that you’re blushing right now? I know it’s dark and I know you’re a chocolate honey but I can tell when you’re blushing. It’s one of my superpowers. It happens so rarely. Last time was when we watched that new Michael B. Jordan action movie, where he was running around, tiddies out. I could feel the heat just, like, radiating off you. Made me sweat out my edges. . . . Tell me, Keeks, do you want Malakai to help you sweat out your edges?”  I swallowed my snort. “I’m putting you in a time-out.”  Aminah made a sudden scoff of disgust, which doubled as a warning alert as to who was approaching me. I smiled through gritted teeth as Zack stopped in front of me. He was looking at me through heady hazel eyes, bottom lip tucked into his teeth in a way that would have been sexy if I didn’t know it came from an assiduous desire to be sexy, a precalculated equation, tried and true. He was wearing a pale blue shirt with a tiny man playing polo embroidered on it, his pungent cologne swilling through the air.  Zack stood back, silently allowing his gaze to scan my form up and down and up again in slow strokes. He wanted me to know what he was doing, biting his lip like that, looking at how my body poured into a black bandeau crop top and black midi-skirt, the perkiness of my ass kicked up a little by my boots. I calmly watched him perform his thirst. Finally, he dragged his eyes back to mine, shook his head slowly, and hit me with the pièce de résistance. “So you really just came here to murder me tonight.”  “One can only hope.” Aminah’s voice was drier than cassava as she levelled an even, unimpressed stare at Zack, a boy she hadn’t been able to stand since the time they went to the same boarding school.  Zack chuckled, rolled his tongue in his mouth, and nodded slowly. “Aminah. How are you? I didn’t see you there. Blind to bad energy.”  My eyes flicked up to the ceiling. Aminah slid her head to the side, an arm under her breasts, an elbow propped on it, sharp-taloned azure nails wrapped around her glass. “That makes no sense, you goat. Also are you nose-blind to bad energy as well? Is that why you can’t smell the stink of your own cologne? What is it, Eau de Prick?”  Zack stilled, his smile stiffening. His charm was defective around us and it always threw him off. It was like he forgot every time, and every time he went through the same kind of reckoning that to us he wasn’t an automatic knee-weakener and panty-wetter. I grinned as Aminah turned to me and kissed me on the cheek, whispering, “You good?”  I looked back at Zack. “I can handle him.”  She nodded, threw Zack the stinkiest side-eye, and kissed her teeth as she walked past him, flicking her hair as she made her way over to Kofi’s DJ booth.  Zack stepped closer to me. “You didn’t wanna come say hi to me? I know we had a fight but I thought we’d have a truce seeing as it’s my birthday.” I called Zack Kingford My Guy because I thought it would distance me from the reality that I had been hooking up—even admitting it to myself was embarrassing—with a truly jarring person. Didn’t work. We all had our vices.  In the far corner of the bar, by the DJ booth, were three beat-up leather sofas arranged in a C-shape with a black center table in the middle and three artificial candles flickering on it, a self-designated VIP area. Every month I tried to discourage its creation, tried to open it up, and every month it was colonized by the same squad before anyone else got a chance to sit there—Zack’s boys, dressed in weaker iterations of his outfit. With them, in between them, leaning against walls, sitting on the arms of the populated sofas, on the laps of Zack’s tribe, were the pretty girls who had made the contraband banner that was stuck on the wall above them. It read, in nineties’ hip-hop-style graffiti, Happy Birthday, King Zack, with a wonky crown slipping on the axis of the A in his name.  I smiled. “I had no idea it was your birthday and it wasn’t a fight, Zack. Also, you know this is not what we’re supposed to do with our access right? This is meant to be a communal area. No VIP shit.”  Zack shot me back something sly, nodded, and rubbed his chin. “You’re a VIP to me, partner. Speaking of which”—he stepped closer—“you left something at mine during our last . . . meeting.” He reached into his pocket and pulled out the smooth cylinder that was Aminah’s designer lip gloss. I darted a quick glance around to make sure nobody was watching and snatched it from him, slipping it into my bag swiftly. There was no reason for him to do that in public. Except to be a dickhead.  “You’re a dickhead.” I kept my smile sweet, conscious of the fact that we were surrounded by people.  “You’re in denial,” he countered.  I gritted my teeth. This was way more drama than I’d bargained for with this whole deal. That was the entire point of Not Dating Zack. Not to feel obliged to dedicate time to him. Yeah, he had a body that was just muscle and skin and made for sin, but he was not the best talker. And that worked for me—I couldn’t get thrown by anything like a personality, a sense of humor, or intelligence—but it also meant that I found his tongue tedious when it wasn’t in my mouth.  My arrangement with Zack had started shortly after the infamous town hall incident a year ago when late-night meetings in a booked-out, tiny study room to figure out the logistics of FreakyFridayz with him led to my butt being pressed up against the desk. He was boring because, like every boy who was used to not working for what he wanted, he liked that I didn’t like him. And I liked that I didn’t like him. It was the perfect situation. He was attractive and fulfilled what I needed him to do—and nobody had to know.  Romance was a waste of time, a form of manipulation utilized by boys who didn’t wash their bedsheets regularly. It existed, sure, but I wasn’t surrounded by anyone I believed engaged in it properly, with respect for the object of affection, rather than a thirst to claim—a triumph of acquisition, rather than a triumph of winning affection. With Zack, it was clinical, uncomplicated. There was no risk of catching feelings. I had someone to make out with, without having to commit to anything longer than the duration of a Netflix movie. But this year, Zack had switched up on me, my sustained lack of attention now presenting itself as an affront that he needed to correct.  My eyes drifted beyond Zack’s shoulder, landing on Malakai again, and somehow, by coincidence or God, or the same energy that hopscotched between us, it happened to be the exact same moment he looked up. I cleared my throat and forced my gaze to switch back to Zack, whose arm had somehow made its way above my head, his palm flat against the wall, boxing me in.  I looked up at My Guy. “Seriously. What do you want, Zack?”  He shot me a slow grin. “Still mad at me? I don’t get no ‘Happy Birthday,’ no card—”  Nobody would blink twice at what was going on right now. Zack was known for being flirtatious, and we worked together. We were hidden in plain sight.  “Happy Birthday.” I sighed. “Zack, I’m not mad at you. We had a good time. It was what it was. And now it’s over.”  Zack arched a brow as he ran his eyes over me, voice dropping to a burr. “You telling me you ain’t gonna miss me?”  He was sexy, but his sexiness had run its course with me, a stick of bubble gum chewed on for too long. “You’ve got plenty of company, hon.” I flicked my gaze toward the sofas—his fan club was already shooting me evils through heavy-lashed eyes. I smiled up at Zack. “You’ll be alright.”  He chuckled, because my words glided off his skin, tickling him as they fell. “They’re not you.”  I laughed at his attempt to be romantic. “Okay. Say I say yes. Would you want me to go on dates with you in public? Be on your ProntoPic feed? Be your girlfriend?” I knew being in a public relationship with me wouldn’t serve him. I wasn’t sweet enough, pliable enough, not the right kind of popular. I was transgressive enough to be an exciting sidepiece though.  “Why you thinking about labels, Kiki?” Zack shook his head. “We’re more than that. All I know is that I want you. You’re peng, buff—”  “That’s the same thing twice, Zack.”  “Sexy, fine—”  “Thank you for seeing me, man. Really.” I pressed a palm against my chest. “I contain multitudes.”  Zack smiled and swayed a little. He was drunk.  “And I can help you contain more—”  I groaned. “Really, Zack? That actively made my vagina drier. Kinda like pussy silica gel. Know what I mean?”  Zack’s eyes shone and he stepped closer, voice dropping. “I see you’re into that freaky shit. That BDSM ting. Shit-talk me to get me worked up. I’m into it—”  He did not know what I meant. I stared at him for a few seconds in sheer disbelief before laughing and shaking my head. “Okay, I don’t know what you’re on right now but I’m going to need you to back up. I don’t have the time for this. Go drink some water. You’re acting really thirsty right now and it’s not attractive.” I patted his chest with the back of my hand, but he didn’t budge. My hackles immediately pricked up.  “Kiki, listen. You make me better. I make you better. I mean”—he gestured around the bar, the laughing, the dancing, the joy—“look at this. You did this. I pushed you to do this.” Zack reached out to stroke the back of a finger across my jaw.  My eyes narrowed. “I will bite you.”  He grinned. Oh, gross. He liked that. I kept my breathing steady. I was becoming nauseated by him. This thing between us was already turning rancid when I ended it but now it had a stench to it; it was growing into something sinister.  I gulped down my warm drink and had pushed myself off the wall Zack had me cornered against to move past him, when he snatched at my arm, his fingers pressing firmly into my flesh. I halted, rolled my eyes, and rubbed the crease between my eyes. Not today.  Zack had his bottom lip tucked into his teeth and was looking at me with eyes that were dilated and thick with something I didn’t need to see through to see through. “Do you want to die today?!”  Zack oozed out a broad smile that made the whisky and Coke in me revolt. He yanked me toward his body and I crashed stiffly into him. “Do it slowly.”  I tilted my chin and levelled my gaze, trying to calm my racing pulse, flared by anger, not fear. If Zack wanted to be a predator then I was going to be a force majeure, the lovechild of Sạ ngo and Osun, ̣ thunder, lightning, a flood.  “Let go of me now, and I’ll do you the favor of pretending that you losing your fucking mind is down to drugs. Otherwise—”  “Do me a favor?” The corners of his mouth kicked up in a snide snarl. “Babe, I chose you. You’re not even my type. I usually go for girls who”— his eyes ran across me—“are more on my level. This was charity.”  I nodded. “Oh, I see.” There it was.  Zack’s sneer melted a little and his smile faltered as he noted the look on my face. I was grinning widely, manically. “Kiki, look, I was just chatting, I’m sor—”  I shook my head and wrestled my arm from his grip, still smiling, like he’d told the funniest joke, which was somewhat close to the truth in that he was a fucking joke. Malakai’s friends were laughing at something, carefree, unaware. Malakai didn’t join them. His brows were furrowed slightly as he looked at me, eyes bright, glimmering at me in the dim violet light. I swore they were saying something. I swore I heard them say what I was thinking.  Zack took my silence for softening and tried to place a hand on my waist. My stomach turned and the safeties came off my inner glocks. I put my empty cup down on a nearby table, looked back up to him and smiled. “I know you’re sorry.” Chapter 6


I found my legs and strode toward Malakai, weaving deftly through the crush of twined bodies. Kofi was playing a song that sampled Floetry’s “Say Yes.” We had entered a slow-jam section of the night and so backs were pressed flush against fronts, faces were in necks, and arms were wrapped around waists, as hips swayed to the sultry song, making it relatively easy to make my way through what would normally have been a thick crowd.  Malakai pushed himself off the wall immediately. My heart slammed against my ribcage with the full weight of itself, in protest of what I was about to do, but there was no backing down now. He was looking at me with calm curiosity. He’d moved a little away from his friends and into a corner that was slightly obscured but still visible to eyes that were purposely seeking and trailing. He flicked his head at me to follow suit. I stepped up to him, ignoring the interested eyes of his boys, and the gentle jesting calls of “Jeez, is that you, yeah, Chief Malakai? A whole Kiki Banjo, ya kna? How much did you pay in dowry?”  Malakai directed a middle finger at them while looking straight at me, his plush mouth bent slightly in intrigue, his eyes sparkling. He had to be kidding me with this. How were they so dark and so bright at the same time? I didn’t think horoscopes were my thing but his eyes really looked like stars and I suddenly wanted to be an astrologer, to learn how to read them as they flashed at me.  “What you need me to do?” His voice was low, gravelly.  A thrill ran through me but I had no time to assess it. I rose on tiptoe, wrapped my hand around his neck, and said, with a breath into his ear, “Kiss me.”  He smelled good, a dark, musky, woodsy fragrance with the clean sweet scent of whatever lotion he used, and I took it in deeply to distract myself as two long seconds ticked by in which he said nothing. The lengths of our bodies weren’t touching but I was close enough to sense his surprise. The adrenaline from my war-surge was beginning to thicken and slow enough for embarrassment to creep in. I wanted to humiliate Zack in the language he understood, twisting his toxic machismo and shoving it down his throat, but now I was the one choking.  I let go of the back of Malakai’s neck and began to retreat, accepting my defeat, prepping my shit-sorry-forget-I-said-anything speech, when he put both hands on my waist and drew me to a halt. A shot of heat rushed through my entire body. His fingertips rested lightly on the top of my skirt, just below where the slip of skin exposed by my crop top began. It was a comfortable pressure, politely light, respectful, and yet the pit of my stomach flared, impolitely, disrespectfully. The slip of skin itched for his hands to move a scintilla upward. What had I got myself into? I needed to be in control, always, but the way my skin seemed to be feening for something it had never had before was beyond mine. He had barely touched me.  Malakai lifted his head so he was looking right at me. I was on my tiptoes still and if he hadn’t been holding me I was pretty sure the intensity of his gaze would have been enough to knock me off balance. My heart wasn’t beating like war drums anymore; it was carnival drums. My body had been ready to move into combat, but now, strangely, I wanted to dance.  Malakai nodded, the corner of his deep and delicious looking mouth flicking upward. “Okay.”  I only saw a flash of Malakai’s eyes amping up in wattage, the increased gradient of his crooked smile, before my bottom lip nestled between his and I slowly, gently pressed, causing his own mouth to part immediately, welcoming me into a dark and decadent warmth. His lips moved in a motion that was in deep conversation with mine, filling in the cadences, an instant response to my calls that sent a thrill so sharp through me I almost stumbled. I pushed my body closer and he took it as permission to draw me in with teasing languidness.  He was good. And not just a One Size Fits All good, but good enough to match me. He was feeling me out, taking the lead gently when it was clear I was ceding power. I could taste that he was having fun with it, deepening the kiss before lightening up, making the increasingly frantic heat gathering inside my stomach rise and then simmer. I could feel a new brand of adrenaline kick up inside of me. He was challenging me. This was a duel. Fine.  I drew back slightly and twirled my tongue and I could tell by the low vibration in my mouth that it had the intended effect on him. He pulled away and looked at me, slightly stunned, an impressed brow quirked.  Huh. Good work, Keeks. Me: 1, Malakai: Oh.  His eyes twinkled and he brought his mouth back to mine, transforming my smug smirk into a small moan. Fuck. It occurred to me that this might have been my first honest kiss. Both our motives were plain. We were engaged on the same level for the same purpose; to feel and be felt. The raison d’être might have originally been to make Zack sweat, a mutual decision to destroy, a wartime treaty (Zack and Malakai were natural enemies, after all), but with every little gentle sweet motion of suction and lip grazing I could tell the kiss had morphed into something different. Still an assertion of power, but this was a power shared, ceded, and reclaimed in the same breath, a friendly battle of thrills and a test of will. My heartbeat was drumming a frenetic, syncopated rhythm on internal djembes that got me thinking that both our ancestors were being summoned to approve of whatever the fuck was going on here.  I detected that Malakai was beginning to lose his grip on reasoning by the ever-increasing heaviness of his breath and, truth be told, I was too. This wasn’t the kiss I’d planned—this was fun and my body was engaging in it far more than I’d intended. I didn’t have to look back to know that Zack was watching us, and sure, that meant other people might be watching us, but at this particular moment I didn’t give a shit. I felt powerful.  Besides, public making out at FreakyFridayz wasn’t a big deal. As it was, I could guarantee at least eight other couples were dry humping in various corners of the room—it is a truth universally acknowledged that university club nights are one of the horniest places in existence. But even without the cloak of invisibility that general shamelessness provided, I felt good about the fact that though this guy had control, I had what it took to make him lose it. I slid my arm from around his neck so I could curve a hand around his neck and rest my thumb on his jaw, and deepened the kiss, gently slipping the tip of my tongue into his mouth. I felt the pressure of Malakai’s hands on my waist increase automatically in a way I knew he couldn’t help and then I pulled away. Just in time. Before the kiss took us someplace else.  Malakai’s smile sloped out slowly. “Well, shit.” A surprising grin snuck out of me in response. I bit my lip to curb it.  Then I heard it. Low and resounding woops curling around us, bringing me forth from whatever vacuum had been created when we stood together and our lips touched. I closed my eyes as realization dawned. That would have been the inevitable audience that gathered when Kiki Banjo made out with the new Sweetboy just after he’d had a run-in with two other queens, narrowly avoiding a civil war. I never got involved with interpolitics. I tried to settle things from the peripheral, and now I had situated myself smack dab in the middle of a particularly spicy sandwich.  When I had approached Malakai I hadn’t thought deeply about the collateral fallout, just that I wanted to make Zack implode and Malakai posed the perfect weapon. I hadn’t expected it to be like that—a whole world created in a kiss, let there be light, and it was . . . good. To my gratification, Malakai looked equally surprised by the presence of other people, eyes dancing around and above my head as if the crowd around us had just magically appeared. But when his eyes landed on me, they were back to being confident, easy, as he maintained my gaze.  “Ignore them.”  “Don’t tell me what to do.” It was automatic, spit out of my mouth like a bullet, and Malakai smirked like the bullet had just lit him on fire instead of penetrated through skin.  “Didn’t you just command me to kiss you?”  “The question was implied. And you agreed. Enthusiastically.”  Malakai paused, eyes flashing brighter with the light of a swallowed smile before clearing his throat. “Trust me. Turning around now is bait. It means you’re self-aware, that the kiss was for a purpose and you’re checking to see if it lands. You’ll blow your cover. Zack will take it as a win. You want that?”  His voice was level and warm, and the conspiratorial tone told me this was for my benefit. He was on my side. Like it or not, we were teammates, and I had no idea why he decided to join forces with me, but he was right. I couldn’t turn around. For this to work I had to pretend I didn’t care about anyone watching, had to act like I was into this for its own accord. Besides, if I stayed still, if we stayed talking as if this was a thing, people would get bored, the ripple would subside. This was a power move.  “Fine. We stay like this.”  The one improv class I had taken in first year (Dr. Miller suggested it as a way of improving expression; obviously, it was hell. The studio smelled like feet, and everyone insisted on massaging each other for no reason like were in a university-sanctioned sex cult) must have worked because I really sounded like that was going to be a chore. I stood back and held on to his forearms, strong and taut with a smattering of light hairs that buckled under my touch. This was throwing me off. I’ve been around hot guys, I dealt with hot guys, but this was more than facial symmetry, and a smile so bright I felt like I could see my future in it. My pulse was still trying to simmer back into regularity.  Malakai nodded. “We could stay like this, sure. Or we could get a drink.”  I laughed. “You serious?”  Malakai’s grin was mischievous. “We’re at a party. You’re here and I’m here, there’s good music playing and your man over there looks like he wants to bottle me, so we might as well have fun with this.”  Of course. This was tactical game playing. Malakai probably wanted Zack’s spot as alpha, and I was a pawn to him as much as he was a pawn to me. I wasn’t in trouble. This reminder calmed and cooled me. “He isn’t my man.”  Malakai’s eyes became less playful. “Yeah, yeah, sorry. It didn’t look like you were into whatever that was. I was gonna jump in when he—” His jaw tightened. “I was waiting for some kind of signal from you. You looked like you had it in hand.”  So that was why he had been ready when I’d turned to him. He’d been watching. He’d been checking to see if I was okay. The idea sent something simultaneously warm and sharp through me. I forced it to mellow. So he was objectively decent. If that was enough to entrap me then the bar for straight men was subterranean.  “I did have it.” I paused. “But thank you. For looking out. And being, you know, there.” Because how else do you say “Thanks for letting me kiss you to ward off a dickhead! Thank you for knowing what was happening.”  Malakai barely nodded, his eyes trained in on me, as if he were studying me. It occurred to me that he was still checking if I was okay. It made my skin prickle. That wasn’t his job. None of this was his job. What was I even doing?! I cleared my throat and let go of his arms. My palms almost smarted as the balmy air of the bar smacked against them, cool in comparison to the heat of this man’s skin.  “Look, um, this has helped, but Zack is . . . well, he’s a Neanderthal, and he’s probably going to be more pissed at you than me so . . .”  Malakai’s smile was breezy, but his voice had an edge. “So?”  I stilled. Why was his recklessness so hot? I was falling for hypermasculine heterosexual tropes like some porcelain-skinned damsel in a Mills & Boon.  “So, I don’t want to cause trouble for you.”  Malakai laughed outright. “We both know that’s not true.” His smile slanted up in a way that made my core tighten in a manner I didn’t approve of. “Besides, trouble always ends up finding me anyway.”  He couldn’t have been serious. My brows perked, ignoring his implication. “Oh, you mean like when Chioma and Shanti were in your face? That kind of trouble?”  “A misunderstanding. It’s sorted.”  “Uh-huh.”  The curve of his lips broadened. “You don’t like me.”  “I kissed you.”  The chuckle that Malakai rolled out ironically sounded exactly like chocolate-dipped trouble. I wanted to bite into it.  I smiled reluctantly, twitched a shoulder, conceded the silent point. Kissing meant nothing. I had, after all, actually allowed Zack’s tongue in my mouth. I tried again.  “Fine. I don’t know you.”  Malakai nodded casually. “Right. See, I thought that. But for some reason you’re moving like you do know me. Kiara.”  His face had been straight, and I resisted the immediate bend in my lips. The deliberate slipup on my name had been casually done, expertly executed. Shit, he was funny. More dangerous than I suspected. I adjusted my summation of him accordingly in my mental Fuckboi database. Fuckboi with jokes.  “You been watching me move, Micah?”  “I feel like we’ve been watching each other. And it’s Michael, actually.”  Malakai’s flattened voice created the perfect platform for my laugh to slip out and skid across. Malakai didn’t miss a beat; he caught my bait between his teeth and tossed it back to me with ease. If this was a game, then it was fun to play with someone who could challenge me. I stepped closer to him. “Okay. I’m sensing that you have something you want to get off your chest. Am I wrong?” Malakai’s eyes were still dancing. He didn’t look annoyed but he didn’t look pleased either. His gaze sparkled like he was about to jump into a duel. My pulse spiked remembering the last time we did that. “The Wasteman of Whitewell.” I was kind of proud of it. It sounded like the title of one of the medieval romance novels I used to love. The Cad of Canterbury. The Richmond Rake. The Vicious Viscountess. The Wasteman of Whitewell. “Oh, you’re a fan of my show? Thank you so much.” Malakai’s face didn’t twitch. “I am, actually. I listen to it every week.” Oh. My attempt to be a brat flopped. I swallowed this titbit of information he had revealed in an attempt to ignore the fact that it made my pulse skitter, but the fact that it tasted sweet on its way down my neck made the fact that I liked that he listened to me decidedly difficult to ignore. The show was my main source of confidence but also coyness. He tapped into both at the same time. I cleared my throat. “Thanks.” Malakai shrugged, matter of fact. “I wasn’t saying it to gas you. It’s good. It’s good energy, good music and I like what you say. I mean, I really like what you say. Until last week. . . . You know what happened last week?” I hitched a shoulder up and narrowed my eyes in polite curiosity. “No. What happened?” Malakai released a slow smile and nodded. “You were describing this dickhead that breaks the hearts of gyaldem and I was like, rah, who is this guy? Prick. But then all of a sudden, my phone starts chiming. Messages from girls cussing me out, telling me they were about to reclaim their time. Calling me a Wasteman, saying that I’m trash. And then tonight happens. Two beautiful girls I’ve gone on dates with suddenly turned on me like I married them both then abandoned our twelve children.” I moved to lean against the wall in front of him, fold my arms across my chest and stare up at him inquisitively. “Huh. At the same time? Like was there a whole polygamy setup? Old-school Naija?”  “No, like, international businessman with one family in London and another in Houston type deal. New-school Naija.”  “What kind of business is taking you to Houston? Do you sell Bibles?”  “If I was a Bible salesman, that would actually make the whole two- family storyline even juicier.”  We each smiled, then stilled, apparently both as disconcerted that our words had fallen into rhythm in the same way our bodies had. The first time we met wasn’t a fluke.  Malakai cleared his throat, his voice now sounding formal. “Anyway. I’ve been doing damage control all week. As you can imagine it’s all been wildly distressing.”  “Wildly? Distressing?” I laughed, then stopped when I realized he wasn’t smiling. He was serious. “Wait, are you—you’re fucking with me, right? You’re upset because I disrupted your little harem?”  Malakai shook his head. “Nah, I’m upset because you’re a hypocrite—”  I raised a brow. “Excuse me?”  “Kiki, we’re the same. The same way I assume you were seeing Zack casually—”  “Wait—”  “So you weren’t coming from his flat that night we met?”  I swallowed, my skin prickling with new exposure.  Malakai shook his head. “Look, no stress. I didn’t tell anyone. It’s none of my business, and honestly, I don’t give a shit. My point is, the same way you were seeing him casually is the same way I was dating the girls. Similar, anyway. Because I actually liked them, and it’s clear you can’t stand Zack. Don’t get me wrong, that’s your prerogative and you can do whatever you want, but I don’t appreciate being judged for doing the same thing you do. All the women I talk to know what’s up from the beginning. I make that clear. That’s why I was able to sort that shit out with Chioma and Shanti earlier. It’s why me and Zuri are cool. I didn’t lie. I never lied. They’re great girls that I wanted to get to know. No commitment was promised. I told them that I understood their feelings but I just thought this was a healthy way of doing things. There was communication there. You were getting involved in things you don’t know about.”  My mouth parted. Was he accusing me of . . . slut-shaming? Me, the feminist, who had words of Audre Lorde and bell hooks seared into her heart? Who knew the entirety of the prelude to Flawless! I was never lost for words and this time wasn’t any different, but it definitely took me a while to retrieve them. When I found them, they came out like bullets. I stepped closer to Malakai, eyes narrowed and seething.  “Oh, there was communication there? That’s why everybody knew who I was talking about on the radio—because all the women knew where they stood? Please. Look, just because you were able to spin something that smoothed over that mess between Chioma and Shanti doesn’t mean you’re innocent and it doesn’t mean I’ll buy it. You clearly did something for the girls to believe that they meant more to you, something that made them retroactively question your behavior. And for your information, what I did with Zack was not the same thing. Dudes have been doing what you’re doing since the beginning of time. Having their cake and eating it too. Well, guess what? The patisserie’s closed.” So maybe that last part was overkill. I continued talking, hoping to erase any damage that corny line had done to the gravity of my point. “What I’m doing is levelling the playing field. There is a difference, Malakai, and I don’t need to waste any more time trying to explain that to you.”  “Patisserie?”  Oh, for fuck’s sake. “Can we focus?”  His lips bent in an irritatingly inviting manner. “I’m focused.”  “You’re mocking.”  “Nah. It was clever. Literary.”  He was definitely mocking. Zack didn’t quite have what it took to get under my skin, but this guy was burrowing like he knew where to go. It almost made me want to stay as much as it made me want to go. Which meant I had to go.  “You know what? We’re probably done here. I think Zack’s got the message. People will have lost interest by now. It’s already been a long night and I don’t have the energy for whatever this is going to turn into. Thanks for the emergency kiss, but I think I’m gonna—” I went to walk past him.  Malakai stepped to make way for me but his eyes flashed. “I’m sorry.”  “What?” I stopped in my tracks. Men who looked like him and acted like him and, okay, fine, kissed like him, did not apologize. Even men who didn’t have his credentials didn’t apologize. Was the music that loud? I really needed to sort out the sound system because it was clearly a health hazard, causing me to hear things that did not—  “I said I’m sorry. You’re right, I hear you. I shouldn’t have compared the two situations when I really don’t know you like that. But here’s the thing”—he rubbed the back of his neck—“I want to. Been wanting to. Since the first time we met.”  My breath hitched, but I forced myself to breathe, for the expression on my face to stay the same. Cool. I hadn’t been ready for that, but it was fine. He did this all the time. Evolved. Player.  “The first time we met you were going to Zuri Isak’s room—”  “The first time we met you were coming out of Zack Kingsford’s room.”  Touché. I didn’t know if it was great or terrible that he was reasonable. Hot and reasonable. He was also was kind of a dick, the same way I was kind of a dick. It was slowly occurring to me that perhaps he wasn’t the Wasteman of Whitewell. The Wasteman of Whitewell wouldn’t have helped a girl who called him the Wasteman of Whitewell get revenge on another guy (a guy infinitely more fitting of the title). He wouldn’t have noticed her discomfort. Granted, he could have had his own agenda to shame me, but there were easier ways. He could have let me squirm, turned it around, and used the opportunity to embarrass me, leave me pouting into the air, but he didn’t.  Malakai cleared his throat in the silence between us.  “You know what? You probably want space. I’m gonna go. And yeah, that kiss was . . . That kiss was something but it was also nothing. I wanted to help. Me wanting to hang out with you has nothing to do with it. You don’t owe me shit.”  Either he was a preternaturally talented actor, or he was telling the truth.  “I know I don’t.”  Malakai took it as dismissal. He inclined his head deeply, pressed a hand across his chest like he was excusing himself from my court, and shot me a tiny smile. “It was an honor to be your sidekick in making a dickhead squirm, Fellow Superhuman.” He winked and stepped away from me, ready to go. My stomach flipped and spurred my hand to reach out for his wrist.  He looked down at my hand and I found my gaze travelling there too, because I could not believe I’d just done that. My body was in rebellion tonight, acting without permission from my mind. When I looked back up, his eyes were glinting down into mine, asking a question. I nodded. I was here now. I might as well follow through. I dropped his wrist and any pretense that I wasn’t curious. “I know I don’t owe you shit. Which is why you’re buying me a drink and not the other way around.” Malakai’s smile widened. That was two shots of dark liquor on its own. “Yes, ma’am.” He looked like a bad decision. The best kind of bad decision. Chapter 7


I watched Malakai elegantly move through the teaming, steaming crowd, a rum and Coke in one hand, and what looked like a straight whisky in the other. I had gone a year at Whitewell drama free, keeping myself to myself and Aminah, comfortable going from studio to class to dropping by at FreakyFridayz. Now I was sitting in Cuffing Corner, waiting for a guy to get me a drink. A guy with an extremely good butt. I bit the inside of my cheek. I was the one who’d issued a warning about this guy and now I was ogling him like some kind of smitten First Year. This was just an investigation. Surveying the threat posed to the girls of Blackwell. This was due diligence.  Malakai passed me my drink as he settled next to me on the beat-up maroon leather sofa, our knees just inches apart. The level of the music was low enough for conversation, but here, at the corner of the party and opposite the DJ booth, it was even lower. Cuffing Corner was so called because it was where potential couples who were at FreakyFridayz for a date night came to chill. The light was dimmer here and there were coffee tables with fake candles on, for a bootleg grown-and-sexy atmosphere. It was the only place in the party for us to sit and talk in relative privacy; it was a practical choice but it still elicited a necessary eye roll when Malakai suggested it.  I took the drink and flicked my eyes across him. “You’re dangerous.”  “Dangerous how?” Malakai lowered his tumbler of something dark and strong from his lips, and something dark and strong in his eyes told me he already knew exactly what I meant.  “Dangerous, like, right now, without even looking I know there are probably at least six girls in this party that want to choke me out for even breathing near you, let alone sitting in Cuffing Corner with you.”  Malakai shook his head. “It’s because I’m new. I’m still fresh. It isn’t real. It will wear off in a few weeks. If anyone’s in danger, it’s me.”  “What are you talking about?”  Malakai laughed incredulously, and then faded into a smile when he realized my face hadn’t flinched. “Shit, you’re serious.” He nodded, bit his lip, and rubbed at his jaw in a way that was obnoxiously attractive and exemplified the aforementioned danger. Malakai shifted closer to me. “I promise you, half the mandem in this room are wondering how I got Kiki Banjo’s attention.”  I rolled my eyes and with it, pushed away the flutter in my chest that came with his proximity. “They don’t talk to me. They’re scared of me.”  “Those two facts aren’t mutually exclusive. They don’t want to put in the effort that it would take to secure you, because they know you see through their shit, so they make out like it’s impossible, that you’re stush. They’d rather act like there’s something defective with you than be the guy that’s worthy of you, because that would mean they have to face their own shit— and if there’s anything mandem hate it’s facing their own shit—so they leave you alone. And you? Well, you like it that way. No mess.” He said it all casually, voice even and matter of fact.  It unnerved me that there was nothing I could genuinely unpick. “How do you figure this?”  “The same way you know everything you talk about on the radio. We watch from the outside. We know how the game works. I don’t know you like that but I know enough to know that.”  I turned to him fully, folding my leg up beneath me and leaning my arm against the back of the sofa. Our knees knocked. Neither of us moved.  “Okay, Mystic Malakai. Let’s play a game. See how far your skills stretch. You down?”  “Hit me.”  “Zack and I are not a match. Obviously. In fact, if I focus too hard on his personality, I find myself actively repelled. Given these facts, why was I hooking up with him?”  Malakai rose a brow. “Is this meant to be challenging?”  My smile widened. “You’re kind of a dick, aren’t you?”  “Yes. Not a Wasteman, though.”  I rolled my eyes and swallowed my grin. “Answer the question.”  Malakai laughed and nodded. “Alright. You hooked up with him because you were disgusted by him. My guess is, you weren’t really looking for a relationship and you figured you might as well hook up with someone you have nothing in common with. No distractions. No risk of complication.”  I stilled.  As if reading my mind, as if detecting my discomfort, Malakai shook his head. “It’s not that you’re easy to read. Like I said, I noticed you. Wait, that sounded . . .” He faltered. “I meant, I know what to look for when I’m looking at you.”  I slid my head to the side and a smile tipped out. He paused again. Brought his knuckles to rest on the tip of his nose as he stared at me. “Fuck. I sound like a creep. Let me do that again.”  The insecurity broke into his voice, betraying a surprising softness that made me smile. “Hey. Don’t run away from your truth. Listen, if you want a lock of my hair, I’d appreciate it if you just asked instead of plucking it next time? It hurt when you did it while we were kissing.”  Malakai caught my grin and tilted his head like something had been revealed to him, “Oh wow. You’re a dick.”  I nodded and sipped my drink. “Ah, you noticed. So many guys judge me by my looks and not enough by the fact that I’m a huge arsehole.”  Malakai pressed a flat palm to his broad chest. “Not me. I see you. The real you. Angel face, demon heart.”  “Thanks for understanding me.”  We punctuated our conversation with deep, grave nods before both erupting into laughter. I found I had moved closer to him on the sofa, so my bent knee was almost on top of his. I was physically tipsy but I also felt like my soul had had three shots. I felt lighter, somehow more snug in my skin and though I knew I was on a mission to figure out what was drawing me to him so I could cut it off, whatever was drawing me in was addictive and delicious and impossible to find the root of. I kept stopping to savor it. I cleared my throat. “Since you’re all-knowing, you’re probably aware that this is going to be our last conversation.”  Malakai smiled. “I get it.”  He was consistently surprising. The lack of obvious ego bruising only stoked a reluctant curiosity in me. “Really?”  He hitched a shoulder like what he was about to say was the most factual, logical thing in the world. “You’re afraid that I’m not actually who you made me out to be. That you might actually like me.”  “Huh. You ever tried Pilates?”  “Every Wednesday morning just after I drop the kids at school. Why?”  I nodded. “Oh okay. Figures. I just feel like someone whose head is so far up their own arse would be flexible enough to be good at it.”  Malakai’s eyes sparked as he sipped his drink and shook his head. “You’re an assassin.”  “And yet here you are. Still breathing. Despite my best efforts.”  “Don’t take it personally. As we’ve previously established, I’m superhuman. Like you.”  I tried to restrain my smile at his sly callback to our first meeting, but it must have leaked out because eyes twinkling, he began gesticulating as if he was explaining a profound truth.  “Yeah, as you obviously know, in the old days we were known as gods— which, of course, was ridiculous—but now we’re known as what we really are: stupidly good-looking humans with special abilities.”  I huffed a laugh into my drink, creating ripples in the sweet-sour liquid. I brought my glass down. “Uh-huh. What are yours again?”  “Many, but they include the immunity to Kiki Banjo’s many attempts to kill me.”  I released a light snort. “How super can you be if you have to build a whole defense system for me?”  Malakai’s eyes flitted across me deliberately as he leaned back, assessing me. His voice dropped. “Oh, I’m very super, I’m Black Panther meets Sango. It’s just that your level of lethality is unique. I have to adjust to your power.”  I narrowed my eyes. I’d tried to remain contained, repressed, but somehow he was pulling me out of myself. “Do me a favor and let’s keep this whole superhuman thing between us, yeah? People find out and they start freaking out, treating you differently—”  Malakai nodded with understanding. “And it becomes this whole thing where they try to get you to form an intergalactic crime-fighting collective —”  I extended an arm and spread a hand out in agreement. “Right? Right? And who has the time? I’m just trying to get my degree. Learn how to master eyeshadow. And sure, I can carve out a Wasteman’s heart with my eyes, but it’s not all I am. Besides, I hardly ever do it because the cleanup is too stressful. I hate blood.”  Malakai’s smile broke through, lighting up his face. I was used to my jagged edges scraping up against people, but Malakai seemed to click into mine, slot right into rhythm.  His eyes glittered. “Mad. That’s what I mean. That right there.”  “What?”  “That.” He gestured to my face, my form, the air around me in awed bafflement. “That’s what I mean by you being an assassin. Have you seen your fucking smile? You can make a man do anything with that shit. You’re a straight-up villain.”  Malakai’s eyes sharpened, their brightness now concentrated, as they grazed my face. It instantly sparked something in me, like there was a friction point between us and we hadn’t known it existed until we had got close enough to collide. I was light-headed despite the fact that all I’d had was half a glass of watery Jack Daniel’s and Coke and . . . was I having fun? With a boy? With Malakai Korede?  I was undercover in the open. I was investigating the truth of the Fuckboi, but all of a sudden I realized the risk I’d taken, that I’d underestimated my defenses. My heart was pounding a hole in my emotional fences. If that wasn’t enough to break them down, then the heat from Malakai’s eyes would have been enough to erode them. We inched closer to each other at the same time, pulled by the same energy that crackled between us during our first kiss—an hour ago? Half an hour? Five minutes? I didn’t know: alcohol had slowed time or maybe this potent thing between us had.  He was looking at me with an intensity so heavy it dropped to the base of me and disturbed the peace. I felt myself responding in kind. Just as Malakai drew nearer, I caught the shape of my best friend in the corner of my eye. She stormed into the area, stepping over the clusters of couples cozied up on sofas before striding over to us.  “Hi, yes, hello, I’m Aminah, the best friend.” She flicked an appraising, amused look across Malakai as we jumped apart and I cleared my throat.  Malakai nodded and held out a hand. “Hi, I’m—”  Aminah looked at his hand then back up at him and laughed. “I know who you are.” She looked at me with a small grin. “Cute. Shaking hands. Polite. Not Wasteman behavior at all.”  Malakai turned to me, raising his eyebrows, as if Aminah had proved his point. I rolled my eyes and looked up at my best friend pointedly. “Aminah. What’s up?”  “Ah, yes.” She settled between us on the sofa, scooting her butt on the seat and forcing Malakai and I apart. “Sorry about this. But you guys sitting so close to each other is part of the reason I’m here—”  I frowned. “Minah, what are you talking about?”  “I’m getting to it! Calm down! Can I have a sip of that please?” She grabbed my glass from my limp hand, taking a large swig before handing it back to me. “Thank you. So as your best friend, I’m loving . . . this.” She gestured between Malakai and me. “It’s great. Get it, girl. And that kiss? Superb. Almost had me climbing up on Kofi—”  Malakai laughed. “I’m sure he’d be gassed about that.”  Both my and Aminah’s necks tilted at the exact same degree. Aminah rose a brow. “Excuse me? You’re cute but not cute enough to avoid getting smacked.”  Malakai raised a hand, eyes wide. “Yo, sorry, no disrespect. It’s just that Kofi’s my boy. Grew up together. I wasn’t being sarcastic.”  “Oh.” Aminah visibly relaxed, then smiled as she realized that this revelation meant that Kofi had spoken to Malakai about her. “Cool. . . . Anyway, I am not just here in a best friend capacity, I’ve got my producer/manager hat on.” She turned to me, her eyes as serious as tipsy double-strip-lashed eyes could look. “And as your manager, I am seriously worried. I have heard things at this party. And the Brown Sugar account has lost fifty followers since that kiss. The Blackwellian queens aren’t happy.”  My blood ran cold. “What do you mean? Why?”  Aminah inhaled deeply, pulled out her phone from her bra, and slid a thumb across it a few times till a ProntoPic account for The TeaHouse flashed on her screen. Simi. My breath tightened.  Malakai and I both peered at the screen, and sure enough there was a grainy, dark picture of my arms around his neck, his hands at my waist. You couldn’t see our faces, but the inspired caption, “Seems like Brown Sugar is into Dark Chocolate,” made my involvement pretty clear. Underneath the picture were dozens of comments—snake emojis apparently meant to denote the fact that I was a sly bitch.  Even when Simi wasn’t there, Simi was there. She had eyes everywhere in the form of First Years desperate to please her and Second Years who thought that the closer they were to her the less likely it was that they’d be stung. She had an army of spies, and of course, she would have had someone watching me, waiting for me to slip. It was stupid of me not to think about that. She saw my show’s popularity as a threat to her power even when I clearly had no interest in said power. All I wanted to do was get my fellowship and play bops. Her surveillance had never been a problem before because nothing I did gave her minions any grip. But now I had actively antagonized her and given her something to hold against me: Malakai.  “Fuck.”  Aminah nodded grimly and placed her phone back in her bra with the same gravitas that a lawyer would have had snapping her briefcase shut.  “Fuck, indeed. Keeks, we have an image problem. It doesn’t look great when the campus romantic advisor, the one who told girls to reclaim their time and play players, not only made out with one of the most eligible players on campus but is also cuddled up in the Cuffing Corner with him. Do you know what I mean? That affects your credibility. Which affects our show. You know if we consistently dip below a certain number of listeners, we lose it right?  “Simi is a snake and I know she has it out for you, but you know her clout. She has connections in nearly every girl group on campus. They’re going to mobilize and boycott and we’re going to drop listeners. I need a media extracurricular for my internship, and if I don’t get it, I’ll have to go to Nigeria and work for my dad this summer while he tries to set me up with his best friend’s son, who wears a sovereign ring on a pinky finger, trilby hats, and too-short trousers. Kikiola, I cannot . . .”  And it would cost me New York. I had no clue how I would grow the show, but I had no chance if there wasn’t a show to grow. Besides that, the idea of losing Brown Sugar freaked me out. It anchored my university experience. I needed it to keep me moored. I put my drink on the coffee table, swallowed my own rising panic, and rubbed my hands up and down my best friend’s arms. “Breathe, Minah. Countdown from ten—”  “Regular ten or Beyoncé ten?”  “Beyoncé ten.”  Aminah shut her eyes and nodded, exhaling air through tightly pursed lips, reciting lyrics from the Beyoncé song “Countdown.”  Malakai leaned forward and peered at me over my best friend’s meditating form. “Sorry—am I missing something? This seems kind of ridiculous. Is this a real problem? We just kissed. It’s no one’s business. Who’s going to believe the dumb theory that the radio thing was just a ploy to get me? I mean, I get it. I’m a catch, but . . . ”  Aminah’s eyes flickered open and she looked at him like he was scuff on brand-new heels, her panic making her snap: “I’m sorry, is this a joke to you?”  Malakai blinked. “No, I just—this seems like an overreaction.”  Aminah glowered. “Oh yeah, because of course we hypersensitive, emotional women would be overreacting. It’s not like we understand the inner mechanisms of the social ecosystem of our school because we’ve been here for a year and are integral cogs to its functionality—”  Malakai’s eyes widened. “Wait, I didn’t mean—”  Aminah raised a hand. “Of course it matters, newbie. The girls run shit here. Simi is a cow, but she is a cow with clout. She is the ex–ACS president. She’s like the anti-Kiki, and people listen to her almost as much as they listen to us. Even if they don’t think they believe her, the suspicion is enough. Reputations are at stake, and reputations are currency here. I mean, think. Kiki doesn’t date and a week after she issues a PSA telling everyone to basically back up off you, she’s suddenly doing tongue twerks in your mouth?”  I exhaled deeply, swallowing. I was so stressed I couldn’t even interrogate my best friend’s use of “tongue twerks.” She was right. This was bad. And irresponsible. I didn’t even really know Malakai and I still hadn’t actually received a feasible explanation for him making two of the baddest girls in school trip for him simultaneously. If anything, sitting with him— shit, kissing him—sanctioned his actions. I sat back, looked up, and realized that narrowed, frosty glares were being thrown my way from various points in the room. Reality descended on me, eroding the last remaining light and warmth from my time with Malakai. I went cold.  “You’re right. It looks like I tried to alienate him on purpose because I fancied him. Which is so, so, so far from the truth.”  Malakai frowned. “Okay, we get it. Why so many sos?” “I only kissed him to shake off Zack . . .” The panic crawled up my throat as I fanned my face to subdue the sudden, inexplicable, uncomfortable heat that was rushing through me. “I just thought he was the best bet! I assumed he would be down because I thought he was a ho.” Malakai quirked an brow. “Excuse me?” I rolled my eyes. I had no time for feelings. I didn’t care about being liked, but I did care if the Blackwell babes lost respect for me because they thought I’d double-crossed them. I also really cared about my show. “Oh please. It’s not sexist if it’s directed at a man. Women deserve sexual liberation and guys like you do not. You can’t be trusted with it. You misuse it.” Malakai rolled his tongue in his mouth, his eyes glinting with irritation. “Ah. So we’re back to you acting like you know me again. Cool. I missed that. That was a good time.” I laughed humorlessly and scooted forward on the sofa. “Oh. Oh, I see. So you can presume shit about me, but I can’t about you? That’s the same entitled crap that probably led you to date multiple girls at the same time and not expect any emotional investment. Don’t act like you don’t know what you’re doing. It’s manipulative.” Malakai released a slanted, dry smile. “Remind me why we kissed again? Was it love at first sight or was it to piss off Zack? And listen, I rate it, I get it, but what I don’t get is you acting like we’re so different. And you kissing me proves that. Everybody saw that you’re exactly what you preach against. It’s like I said before. You’re a hypocrite, Kiki.” I froze. “Okay, wow.” Aminah’s eyes widened as her head whipped between Malakai and I, her hair swishing in my face in the process. Something flitted across Malakai’s strained face and he flattened his lips. It looked like it might have been a small dose of regret. He cleared his throat. “Look . . . let’s just calm down. I didn’t mean to—” I held up a hand. I had stopped floating a while ago, but now I crashed to the ground. I had been so stupid. “Oh, I’m calm. Who’s not calm? Don’t try and do that . . . gyaldemwhisperer thing to me. It won’t work. And don’t try and backtrack because you just exposed the real you. Now it makes sense. You didn’t agree to kiss me to help me. Why on earth would a guy like you do that?” Malakai’s smile was now a sardonic curve. “Guy like me?”  I ignored him. “You did it to call public bullshit on what I said on my show. You wanted to show me up. Expose me. You played me.”  Malakai sat back. He nodded slowly and his demeanor shifted with a shrug of his shoulder. “What if I did?”  Hot fury turned the words in my mouth into ash. A heavy silence dropped between us. I shook my head in disbelief. It was almost a relief to know that it was just a seduction ploy to make me look dizzy. The part of me that wanted to believe that what had just happened between us couldn’t have been fake only worked to convince myself that it had to be. This was exactly what guys like Malakai did. When you fell into the trap, they’d tell you that you should have been watching where you were going.  Aminah cleared her throat. “Wow. That was hot.”  “What?” Both my and Malakai’s voices were incredulous, our eyes snapping into each other’s almost as quickly as we tore them away.  Aminah shook her head sloppily. “I mean don’t get me wrong, I am vexed. I wanna cuss Malakai out.” She threw him an irritated look. “But it was compelling. Juicy. Better than my favorite reality show, Romance & R&B.”  Malakai stared at her. “What is happening right now?”  I picked up my bag. “I’m leaving.”  Aminah placed a hand on my arm, steadying me. “Seriously. I would watch this. Or listen to it.”  I nodded sarcastically. “Yeah. Okay. Let’s do a radio show where I let Malakai break down all the benevolent ways being a Fuckboi actually helps women.”  Aminah gasped and her eyes widened. “Kiki Banjo, you beautiful, talented superstar. This is why I manage you! Opening up the lines of gyaldem-mandem communication. Fuck, I’m a genius. I mean, technically you came up with the idea but I definitely led you to it. Wow, even when I’m not trying, I’m on it. Why am I studying marketing and business when I could just teach it?”  Aminah’s hands were suspended in the air as she pantomimed the frames in a screen in which she could apparently see her future as some sort of public relations fixer. I nodded, pulled Aminah’s hands down, and hopefully, with them, her excitement for the idea.  “Alright. Calm down, Olivia Nope. There is no way I’m doing this. Can we go? I’d rather listen to Camila Cabello singing Beyoncé songs acoustically on loop than be around him for one more second.”  Aminah gasped. “Alright, I know emotions are high but, please. Don’t put evil like that into the universe. Our tongues are powerful. We’re Nigerian. We know this.”  I reeled myself back in. Anger had pushed me too far. “No, sorry. I wasn’t thinking straight. My brain is just all out of whack because the girls think I played them for nineties Morris Chestnot.”  Malakai sat up. “You think I look like Morris Chestnut?”  I shot him a withering look. “Has the inflated size of your head made your ears shrink or something? I said not.”  Malakai’s hitched right shoulder and half smile simmered my blood.  “You used him as a reference. You’re clearly thinking of me in the tangential direction of a nineties heartthrob. I’ll take it.”  I rolled my eyes. “Prick.”  Malakai didn’t blink. “She-demon.”  My smile was a pastiche of innocence. “What happened to ‘angel face’?”  “I didn’t specify if the angel was fallen or not.”  I narrowed my eyes and yanked an increasingly waved Aminah up with me, rattled by the fact that I was rattled. I’d had enough.  “Have a nice life, dickhead.”  Malakai smiled brightly and reclined, sipped at his drink. “It will be. As long as we never have to do this”—he gestured at the space between us —“again.”  I paused. Inhale. Deeply. That’s it. And exha— I was picking up the glass of watery remains of my drink. I’d intended to down it, hoped that even in its ultraweakened state the rum would drown my irritation, but as I lifted it up, I found my hand tilting away from me, in the direction of Malakai Korede, so that the cold watery drink trickled down into his lap. He jumped up, eyes so shocked that the light in them sharpened to a blade.  Aminah gasped. So did I. A little bit. I decided the best thing to do was to lean into my actions.  I smiled sweetly at Malakai’s shocked face. “Don’t worry. We won’t be.”  I stalked out of Cuffing Corner, my best friend staggering gleefully behind me, while I made the determination that any mild kindles of warm feeling I had felt toward Malakai were simply the result of looking directly into the enchanted eyes of the Fuckboi Supreme.  Chapter 8


Brown Sugar Show: Archives Ladies,

I am a believer in the power of moving mad. You know what I mean? When a dude has you so fucked up that he has unleashed the power of a thousand goddesses. Usually it comes with a simple “Fine. Do you, then, innit.” Or a “cool.” That’s my favorite. See, when they move mad the trick is to move madder.  There are, by my calculations, two modes of moving mad. There is the killing them softly approach. The quiet storm. Step back. Cut them out. Leave them on read. Two blue double ticks cooling in the breeze. Give them the time they think they need to breathe so they realize that . . . actually? They can’t breathe without you. Now you got the dude wondering. You got him stressed out. You got him thinking, Why don’t she care? Why is she taking my fuckery so well? Babes, they get shook. The power is flipped over on to you. You will not be a victim and your silence will either force them to confront how they had you fucked up and apologize, or they’ll take it as an excuse to bounce. Either way you’re good, you’re free, the ball is in your court. Either way, you know what you mean to him.  Now, the second mode is moving actively mad. That’s even more powerful and should only be reserved for special occasions, wielded with the most delicate care. You have to be sure of yourself to use it appropriately. We’ve seen it in Jazmine Sullivan’s “Bust Your Windows.” The video for Queen Bey’s “Hold Up.” Okay, our producer Minah-Money is saying apparently I cannot advocate for destruction of property on the radio for whatever reason. Why is she looking at me like that??! Whatever. You get my drift.  Sometimes these men move so mad that they have us moving mad chaotically. They’ve got under our skin. There is power in leaning into that. Embracing our emotions. Show them, peppeh. Make them regret fucking with you—but note that if you decide to go this route, you have to have direction. Purpose. It has to be dosed correctly. Misuse the power of moving mad chaotically and you might end up being the one apologizing, overtaking his official offence so much that you end up being in the wrong. So, be careful with it. Although, if he stays after you’ve  poured bleach on his Yeezys you’ll know he’s really into you. If he leaves, he  leaves. Either way you’ve displayed your truth.

Stay sweet ladies, Brown Sugar x




“Rise! And Shine! And give God the glory, glory!!”  I grunted and pulled my covers over my head as my best friend, totally unsurprisingly, took my response as a welcome and opened the door to my room, bounding in. Aminah always entered a room with a faint scent of a light Dior Oud, her signature, so even if I hadn’t heard her voice I would have known she was there. It clouded my room, permeated my Ikea bedclothes. The bed depressed slightly as she sat down next to me and yanked the covers off my head.  “Troublemaker. It’s eleven A.M. and we have brunch plans.”  Shit.  Aminah and I had brunch at Wisteria & Waffle once every month. A student version of the Ivy, it was in town, did two-for-one on cocktails and Prosecco from nine A.M. to three P.M. on weekends, and was supremely social media–friendly in a girl-boss sort of way, with floral walls, an LED light fixture that read Vibes, excellent bathroom lighting, and unreasonably peng waiters, like some kind of culinary version of Hollister. The black tee and fitted trouser/skirt combo the waiters wore seemed especially tailored to elicit thirst—an ingenious marketing ploy to make us order more cocktails, because we did, every time.  There was one waiter who Aminah and I both crushed on in particular, a postgrad: a tall, bearded, cinnamon-skinned spice. He had an Eye of Horus tattooed on his firm forearm that winked along with him when he brought us our mimosas. He was known as AJ but he informed us in a conspiratorial, low voice that we could call him Aaron, a bizarre, but nevertheless sexy invitation I’m pretty sure he extended to all the Whitewell women. Because of this, W&W was also the baitest place to be on a Saturday morning. It would be rammed with respective cliques trying to rejuvenate after a night at FreakyFridayz. That meant it was the last place I needed to be after the previous night’s antics. They kept replaying in my mind, swirling around my head with the alcohol.  We’d got home at three A.M., maneuvering past the death glares that were being thrown my way. Aminah had insisted we had a few more shots at home to cheer me up despite being waved herself, and we dissected what had happened—her gleeful, me regretful. Somewhat regretful.  Was I wrong for pouring my drink into Malakai Korede’s lap? Probably.  Had he deserved it? Almost definitely.  On the other hand, had he helped me stick it to Zack by kissing me like a pirate who’d discovered the real treasure was within his lady love the whole time? Fuck, yes. It was unnerving that part of the reason for my sleepless night was the reliving of that kiss. The thrill that ran through my body when he’d held me close. How it felt like he’d wanted me. How it felt like I’d wanted him. I also had to contend with the fact that the Blackwellian girls all probably thought I was a two-faced bitch. My mind was in disarray.  Less important but nevertheless pertinent: I’d slept in my makeup and forgot to do my skincare routine before bed, so I also had to reckon with the fact that I was likely to break out today. All of this meant that there was absolutely no way I was leaving our flat this weekend.  My best friend tried to haul me up but I batted her away as I hoisted myself up. I always forgot that Aminah and I had far, far different tolerances to alcohol. She was as chirpy as a Real Housewife who just got word that her nemesis’s husband was cheating on her. Immaculate in her pink monogrammed matching satin gown and headwrap, Aminah actually did look like she belonged in a reality show for the elegant and luxe. It was fascinating. I didn’t even know how she was standing—just a mere few hours ago she’d been texting me “ofggggg the room is spinningggggg” from her bedroom next door.  I readjusted my oversized shirt and scooted over so she could nestle next to me on the bed. “Why don’t we have brunch at home? Save money.”  “Because we have half a plantain and two slices of bread left and we were meant to go grocery shopping after brunch. Why don’t you want to go? Is it because you think everyone’s going to be staring at you after last night’s scene? They will. Revel in it.”  I shot her a humorless smile. “Thank you so much for that. Give it to me straight, though, now that we’re both sober.”  Aminah pulled a face in a way that indicated that she might still have been a little drunk and I made note of my own slight wooziness. “Okay, now we’re both relatively sober . . . how mad did I move last night?” “Kiss or the drink?” “Both.” Aminah grinned. “I thought the kiss was sexy as hell. The drink spill . . . okay, it was a tiny bit extra.” I picked up another pillow and buried my face in it as I leaned back against my headboard. If Aminah was saying I’d been “extra” that meant I’d moved chaotically mad. I felt a tug on the pillow. Seconds later, Aminah managed to pry it from my hands, forcing me to look at her. She bashed me in the face with it. “Oshey, Nollywood, can I finish? It was a little extra but it was exciting, Keeks. You lost control. I have never, ever known you to lose it like that. Even when you’re pissed off it’s, like, measured. This was different. I loved it. You let go and let that drink flow into Korede’s lap. It was kind of iconic.” I rolled my eyes at her bad poetry despite knowing that she’d been right about the control part. Malakai getting under my skin so easily was freaking me out. He was essentially a stranger and he’d also proved himself a Fuckboi by saying he’d used the kiss to prove a point. So why was I letting him get to me in a way that had me acting out in public? That wasn’t me. I was never at the center of campus drama, yet within a few days of meeting him I’d drawn attention that I couldn’t control. It wasn’t directly his fault but there was something unbridled in the energy between us. Aminah nudged me. “Have you seen what they’re saying about you on the socials?” I groaned again. Thankfully I’d had the presence of mind to put my phone on flight mode before I went to bed. I rubbed the bridge of my nose. “Aminah, I get it. They think I’m a back-stabbing snake. Can we talk damage control on Monday, please? I cannot deal with it right now.” My best friend slinked her phone from a silk pocket as her fingers tapped and slid across, deftly conjuring information up. “Um, no. I mean last night it was definitely that, don’t get me wrong, but look at this.” She pried my hand from my eyes and forced me to look at her phone screen. I peeked at it tentatively, immediately faced with a GIF of me pouring the drink on Malakai’s lap. The caption above it read: “Maybe Kiki snapped! I have to stan!” Aminah’s grin was wide as she nodded excitedly. “Uh-huh. Look at the Brown Sugar socials—people love it. When they saw you kissing, they thought you snaked them, but when they saw you turn on him, they saw it as vengeance. The tide turned pretty quickly after that. The girls love it. I bet Simi is livid. It backfired beautifully. People are saying that Malakai got a taste of his own medicine and you were the perfect person to dose it.”  I frowned, trying to process this information when my gaze snagged on another picture. It was a picture of Malakai and I sitting together, my legs crossed, head tilted, with a smirk on my face. Malakai was looking at me intently, smile sharp and slanting. Our knees were inches apart. It was blurry but I saw it clear as crystal, felt it clear as crystal, the warm heat in my belly returning at the memory of how light and easy our conversation had been. I forced it to cool. It was all bullshit. Part of his game, and it was my fault for being duped.  My eyes dropped to the caption and I read it out loud: “Two can play that game.” I raised an eyebrow and smiled reluctantly. “Huh.”  Aminah smirked. “Hot, right? The sexual tension in this picture is mad. Look at the way your eyes are lit up.”  I held up a hand. “Okay. First, it was the flash; second, with love, you are so annoying; third—”  “Has Killa Keeks got an idea?”  “How do you know?”  Aminah grinned at the look on my face. “Last time you got this look we joined the French society so we could get a subsidized trip to Paris, because you found out it was on the Beyoncé tour.”  The plan worked, too. Yeah, we’d missed a team-building dinner with fellow students called things like Penelope Arbuthnot and Barclay Harington, but somehow we got over it. It was a win-win situation. We got to go see Beyoncé, while also having the opportunity to reenact the “Apeshit” video in front of the Louvre.  “Okay, so . . .” I turned to face my best friend properly, swivelling myself on the bed and crossing my legs under me—she did the same, listening intently, expertly filing her nails without looking, her face warm with interest.  “I was just thinking that all this attention would be a cool thing to harness. Remember I told you that the summer program Dr. Miller wants to put me up for requires me to build or grow a media platform? I could use this to generate more ratings somehow.”  “You mean . . . like you mentioned the other night? The thing I encouraged but you shot down?”  I smiled at her pointed brow. “Not exactly that. I mean that was going to be a debate, a battle of the sexes thing. We need a hook, a story. I’ve been thinking about how popular Simi’s blog is and it’s because people love a narrative, and they also love love. Or its idea, anyway. Imagine how interesting people would find it if I was actually dating Malakai. And that thing at FreakyFridayz was just . . . like a fight. What if I capitalized on that interest that surrounds new couples? Like, actually make our relationship the show? Feeding the gossip straight to them, instead of going through a third party like The TeaHouse.”  Aminah froze. “Stop. I’m getting chills.”  “Right? The only complication is that it’s Malakai. Not only can we not stand each other . . .”  “Is that true, though?”  “I definitely poured a drink on his crotch.”  “Okay, so, the fact that you poured it there and not on his head shows where your mind is at, like maybe you thought there was a fire there that you needed to extinguish.”  I stared at my best friend, bemused. “You are not taking another psychology class. I forbid it. Anyway, there’s no way he will agree to it. . . . Let’s move on. Wassup with you and Kof?”  Aminah immediately rose from my bed, adjusting her gown around herself primly. “I don’t know. What is up with me and Kof?”  “Oh. So that wasn’t you up there last night by the DJ booth being his hypewoman?”  “Hypewoman? Ew. I am his muse. Also given that the music really determines how live the party is, all I was doing was making sure people were having a good time by bringing the best out of Kofi. It was an act of kindness. I’m basically Angelina Jolie. A devastatingly beautiful humanitarian.”  “Right.” I couldn’t really argue with her reasoning. Aminah Bakare was truly amazing. My sis was a mistress of marketing, a PR princess, a spin savant.  Aminah twitched a shoulder in petty triumph and flounced toward my door. “I’m giving you forty minutes to get ready, bitch. Aaron awaits and I have a line I wanna test on him: ‘Is that a pin machine in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?’”  I laughed. “Poetry. I think I’m just gonna trace his tattoo slowly and go, ‘Did that hurt?’”  “Can’t wait to be sister wives!”  I opened my laptop to stream music as I got ready. “Only person I’d want to do it with, babe.”


 From: S.Miller@WCU.ac.uk  Subject: Study Buddy

 Or, if you prefer, “Academic Acquaintance.”  Here is a link to the other student’s work. I have sent them your work too.  Let me know what you think. I really think your ideas complement each  other’s.

 S.M

 I stared at the email blinking at me on my laptop screen. It had popped up as I switched on my Saturday Soul playlist, just as Jill Scott asked me to take a long walk with her. So, Dr. Miller hadn’t forgotten. It was a Vimeo link. A film. Pretentious.  I stared at my D’Angelo poster on the wall for guidance. It was his Voodoo album cover, body hard, eyes soft. Slight smirk, lips looking tender, gaze beckoning. It didn’t help. All it did was make me slightly horny. Ugh. I felt irritated about the fact this stranger was apparently good enough for me to seek help from. I didn’t need help. I had this on my own. Maybe I needed to look at their project to prove it to myself. Besides, keep your academic enemies closer. I clicked the link.  It was called Cuts, a fifteen-minute short about a Black barbershop. It was terrible in that it wasn’t terrible. It was good. Really good. Really, irritatingly good—and not the artsy, derivative, pandering shit on toxic masculinity I expected it to be. It showed quick, sharp shots of men bantering and barbering, moralizing while doing-the-mosting, regaling while roasting, straddling the line between shameless sin and sanctimony, telling the crassest stories, lines that sounded like poetry: “She was sweet plantain, soft like mango,” “God is good all the time. He turned my life around man, can’t lie,” and “I’m not religious like that. Respect it, though. My mum’s house is church. Her bills are my tithes.”  It was grainy, the soundtrack a song that was somehow a mishmash of neo soul and grime. Eyes soft, body hard. Aunties coming through with shopping trolleys, singing, “Meat pie, fish pie, puff puff,” adding musical dimension to the pirate radio station playing in the background. Boys coming in to get a trim for their first dates, the old guys calming their nerves by sharpening the edges on their foreheads while making fun of the sizes of their heads, telling them their own first-date stories with their missus.  There was mixtape selling, jewelry hawking, shit-talking, confidence- constructing. . . . It was good. Maybe it needed a little work with narrative, but maybe it didn’t. I felt it. I wanted to know this person. I suddenly felt embarrassed. I’d been a petulant prick. Why was I threatened by someone being better than me? I was a nerd but I never, ever figured I’d be that kind of nerd. The irritation began to ebb out of me just as the credits rolled across the laptop screen: stark white letters against a black background, stars on a clear dark night, just like his stupid eyes.

 A Malakai Korede Film

I slapped my laptop shut. I needed fifteen mimosas.

“I am extremely uncomfortable right now, Minah. I have to say.” We were sat at a window table of W&W, me with a half–English breakfast, Aminah with a stack of pillowy pancakes and summer fruit.  She shrugged and picked up her mimosa. “If I were you, I would lean into it. Let people stare. Besides, you look good. How do you know it’s not because of that?”  I glanced down at my outfit—a men’s black T-shirt with Fela’s face graffitied on it that had “Expensive Shit” scrawled beneath it in haphazard brushstrokes, worn as a dress, with tights and combat boots. I thought I looked good. That perspective changed, however, if I met the decoratively eyeshadowed eyes of the girls shooting me curious gazes in between dainty mouthfuls of waffles and whispers.  “I just know,” I said, as I speared some scrambled egg into my mouth. I cast a furtive glance around the flowery parlor. People were definitely talking about me, and they wanted me to know they were talking about me. Otherwise they could have just talked about me without looking. It’s not like I would have heard—Ariana Grande was playing too loudly. “Well, do you also know what you’re gonna do for the NYU program project? Any ideas? Thought anymore about the Malakai thing?” I took a sip of my sour Prosecco. “I have, actually. Weirdly, I think there’s a chance I could get him to do it. You know that student that Dr. Miller said was my competition?” “Our nemesis, yeah—” “You ladies need anything?” An almost hilariously deep baritone added accompaniment to Ariana’s silken whistles. Aminah and I glanced up to see AJ (Aaron) by our table, broad smile in place. I ran my gaze across his copper-toned arm as he lifted it to push a stray lock behind his ear (there was a pencil tucked there that he did not need, he had a tablet). The Eye of Horus twinkled slightly with the movement. I felt a soft kick on my shins from Aminah’s tennis shoes. She raised a brow at me, her lips pulled back into a knowing smirk. She was challenging me. She wanted me to husk out Nothing that’s on the menu, heavy with implication, like something out of a terrible rom-com. She’d dared me to do it ten minutes ago. She cocked her head at me. “I don’t know. Do we, Kiki?” I shrugged. “Nothing, thank you.” I deliberately avoided looking at Aminah. “You sure? No water top-ups? Yours is looking a little low.” Aminah’s glass was still full, mine half empty. Depending how you looked at it. I shook my head. “I’m perfect, thanks.” Aaron nodded and smiled, his eyes flicking across me. “Yeah. . . . Well. If you need anything. Let me know.” “Will do!” Aaron broadened his smile to include both of us, inclined his head ever so slightly, and walked off to flirt with the cohort of Naija Princesses behind us. “Are you kidding me?” Aminah hissed, as soon as he was out of earshot. “Minah, please. He does that with everyone. It’s part of his job. It’s what keeps us coming back for undercooked eggs. Seriously, these are so runny. You heard me ask for well done, right? It’s more likely he fancies you, if anything.” Aminah shook her head slowly at me. “Why do you do this? You know you fine and yet you act like—” “Oh, for fuck’s sake.” I let out a groan. “This cannot be happening right now.” Aminah’s eyes widened. “Um, excuse you?! You don’t have to swear at me. I just think it’s funny how you’re confident enough to get with Zack Kingsford, but somehow—” Her words were lost on me, the sight my eyes had snagged on in the café window advancing ever closer and closer. I sank down into my seat, grabbed a napkin to cover half my face. “Minah, please. Look outside the window. Without looking.” Aminah, immediately receiving the memo, slipped her oversized shades on and turned to look. Kofi and Malakai were walking directly opposite us, along Duke’s Road, Whitewell’s main shopping street. “Oh . . .” She relaxed instantly and laughed as I ducked my head, studying the vegan breakfast options from beneath the napkin. There were a lot of avocados. I glared at a £6.50 avocado and matcha-oat milkshake. That was new. “Oh.” Aminah’s voice had changed, still amused, but lower, more ominous. “What? What was that last oh?” I hissed. Was the mere sight of the avocado and matcha milkshake making my stomach bubble, or was it the nervous anticipation of what my best friend was about to s— “They’re crossing the road and . . . yeah. Yup. Kofi has clocked me. They’re coming over. I’m so sorry, babes.” I threw the napkin on the table and sat up. “I’m not ready for this. Is there time for me to go to the bathroom?” Aminah pulled a face. “I don’t know. You’d have to walk past Shanti’s table and while she isn’t going to come up to you because that would look like she cares too much, if you pass by, she will pull you into it with her, and likely ask you why you made out with Malakai five seconds after you saw her get into it with him. Your call, I guess.” I pressed two fingers against my temple and inhaled deeply. I was trapped between a rock (diamanté, encrusted on Shanti’s pearly pink pinky) and a hard place (Malakai’s chest). It was fine. When I really thought about it, running away from Malakai Korede wasn’t an option. Yes, I was technically in the wrong for throwing a watery rum and Coke on his lap, but he was also—and this was crucial—an arrogant prick who admitted that he’d used me to prove a point. Admittedly, there is the fact that I also used him to prove a point but that was not the point. He was aware of the point I was trying to prove. He was in on it. I hadn’t played him. Also, I was—  “Kikiola Banjo. You are Brown Sugar herself. You do not run away from boys. Remember who the hell you are and boss up. Beyoncé didn’t drop ‘Bow Down’ for this,” Aminah said, pointing a manicured finger in my direction and raising a brow. This was our boilerplate mini pep talk when the other needed a figurative cold splash of water on the face. Aminah’s deployment of it meant this was an emergency. I needed to get myself together as a matter of urgency.  “Yeah. Yeah. You’re so right. Thank you.” I grabbed my champagne flute and poured Prosecco down my throat for fortification. After a scintilla of a moment I reached out to Aminah just as she instinctively passed her own quarter-full glass of mimosa over to me. A little more wouldn’t hurt.  I downed it just as a growingly familiar scent wafted under my nose, a buttery sweetness of whatever moisturizer he used, tempered with a heavier, muskier fragrance, sexier; something that smelled like night-time drives to slow R&B through the City. I hated how it curled into the base of my stomach, reminded me of how his lips felt against mine. I hated how I recognized it. My body was truly unruly.  Aminah tilted her head up at them. “Hey, boys. You thirsty for mimosas or what?”  “Actually, yeah, but we better not,” I heard Kofi say as I concentrated on a fleck of black pepper on my last bit of egg. “We’re going to Prince’s Park. Basketball.”  I looked up then, but miscalculated, my gaze landing on Malakai, not Kofi. And he was looking directly at me. The slip gave me the freedom to clock he was wearing loose black shorts that hung to his knees, a white tee, upon which a thin gold chain lay, and a gray zip-hoodie. He looked good. Of course, he looked good, and why wouldn’t he play basketball, a certified Hot Guy sport? Predictable. Couldn’t he have played golf or something?  Malakai didn’t look mad or unmad. Just vaguely amused, the corner of his mouth pulled up. I didn’t know if this made me mad or unmad. It would seem that we were going to pretend that everything was normal. Cool. I could do that. In fact, I welcomed that, especially knowing how many eyes were on us right then. I turned my attention to Kofi.  “Why are you coming all the way to town for basketball? We have a court at uni.”  Malakai laughed, and it forced me to look at him again. “Last time we tried that, we drew too much attention. Beckies and Billies slowing down to stare as they walked past. It was as if they’d never seen Black people playing sport in real life.” He shuddered. “You ever heard the word ‘nigger’ from a look? One of them actually came up to me on my way out and asked if I got in because of a sports scholarship—”  A disgusted snort jumped out of me and Malakai’s eyes leaped to mine in surprise. I cleared my throat. “That’s fucked up. What did you say?”  Malakai’s face was straight. “I was scouted by Scientologist missionaries while living in my small village in the nation of Africa. They knew of my prowess when I saved their camp from a lion with my bare hands. I have big dreams. I am so blessed to be the first one in my family to not herd warthogs.”  My smile slipped out. Traitor.  Malakai regarded me a fraction longer than was necessary as Kofi responded, causing both our gazes to jump apart. “Yeah, it was real zoo vibes. Made me feel like we were playing for massa.”  Aminah’s eyes narrowed in glittering ire. “They’re lucky I wasn’t there. The cussing I would cuss would make their bodies and souls shrivel up on the spot. All that would be left is a pile of Barbour gilets on the floor.”  Kofi grinned. “I love it when you go off.”  Aminah caught herself and rolled her eyes. “Whatever. Look, Keeks and I are going food shopping right now and we were going to cut through the park to get to the market. We can walk along with you. We were just finishing up—”  I kicked her shin under the table, but Aminah’s face remained unmoved. She was looking placidly at Kofi, my discomfort obviously of no consequence to her. I knew she thought that the best way to deal with the situation was to confront it head on, but she couldn’t have been more wrong. The best way to deal with it was to pretend it never happened. The best way to deal with it was for Malakai and me to extricate ourselves from each other’s orbits. My stomach tightened as Kofi’s face relaxed further, his smile widening goofily at the invitation.  “Yeah? Okay! I mean, yeah okay. Cool. Calm. Let’s bounce, beautiful.”  Aminah shook her head, but I detected the smile she was trying to bury under the surface. “You talk like a tween sitcom character,” she muttered, while making eye contact with a waiter for the bill.  Kofi laughed. “Be my leading lady.”  Aminah rolled her eyes. “You’re a clown—”  Aminah and Kofi descended into a back and forth that made the awkward silence between Malakai and I louder. Eventually, Malakai looked at the table in careful study, stepping back a little, as if to allow him the full scope of it. I hadn’t fully intended on talking to him properly yet, but somehow, I found myself asking the weirdo what he was doing.  Malakai straightened up and shrugged, swerving his gaze back on me. “Just making sure the glasses on the table are completely empty. You know. For my safety.”  Dick. Chapter 9


Prince’s Park was the largest verdant space in Whitewell, slapdab in the middle of town; so big that it also served as the divider between west Whitewell and east Whitewell. West Whitewell was where our campus was, complete with sprawling suburban gated houses, artisanal coffee shops, cat cafés, and yoga studios owned by white people with blond dreadlocks.  In west Whitewell, there were literal limits to how many Black kids they allowed in a club, although they obviously never made this explicit, having the decency to pretend that it was because they were overcrowded. These clubs were full of hip-hop and white kids that rapped along to it—but when faced with too many real, breathing Blacks that weren’t confined to a consumable form of entertainment for them, they panicked.  There needed to be just enough niggas (Kendrick said it and therefore, so could they) in the club to make them feel cool, enough dotted around, so they could feel diverse. Enough Black guys for white girls to say, “Everyone tells me I dance like a Black girl.” Enough Black girls for white guys to proclaim with Jägerbomb-spiked breath that they ain’t ever kissed a Black girl before, like you were the lucky one, something like The Princess & the Frog, except the Black girl would remain the exotic curiosity and the white guy would feel transformed into something elevated, something unique, perhaps a little dangerously deviant. They needed just enough Blacks in the club to make them feel cool. Too many Blacks, however? That was going too far. Too much Black would make them feel too white.  East Whitewell—or Eastside—was where Aminah and I went to do the bulk of our grocery shopping: bell peppers, scotch bonnets, plantain, okra, rice, cheap packs of ramen to inhale during brutal all-nighters (ramen so bad that it could be used to plaster into broken ceramics. We saw it on TikTok. Somehow, this didn’t stop us). Eastside is where we got our hair supplies, where aunties, carrying swollen blue plastic bags with leaves sticking out of them, spoke loudly in Yoruba and Twi, Urdu and Gujrati. Eastside was the place where Aminah and I took turns to go to the Jamaican shop and order, faced with straight-faced “We nuh ave dat,” till Ms. Hyacinth served us whatever she wanted to serve us. And Eastside was the side of the park where the basketball court was. It was far too far. At least a twenty-five-minute walk. It was a trek. And we had been walking down the plush park path as a foursome, Aminah and I on one side, Kofi and Malakai on the other, but at some point Aminah and Kofi had drifted ahead and together, leaving Malakai and I to hang back awkwardly behind. Technically, we could have just caught up with them and disrupted our discomfort, but that would mean severe cockblocking and apparently neither of us were that selfish. So, we’d been walking in excruciating silence for the past five minutes, the only noise being our shoes crunching on autumn leaves, kids squawking in the background, and our friends’ bizarre mating ritual up in front. I guessed it was up to me to make it bearable. The labor of a Black woman in this society really is unending. I inhaled a brisk gust of fortifying air and looked up at Malakai. “Okay, uh, I guess I should say I’m sorry for the whole drink thing. Actually, I am sorry. It was embarrassing. I moved mad. My bad.” I surprised myself by meaning it. Malakai shrugged and shot me a small smile. “Thanks. I kind of deserved it, though. I was being a dick.” I laughed, half-surprised “What? No.” Malakai kicked at some leaves and rubbed the back of his neck in what was an obscenely sexy move. “I was being shitty. I knew it. I’m sorry.” His eyes searched mine, as if he needed me to know he meant it. I glanced away from him because his eyes’ knowing focus made me uncomfortable, lasering through my skin. “It’s cool.” Malakai cleared his throat. “Look, uh, full disclosure? Dr. Miller sent me some of your work. Your writing on pop culture and society and that essay on, like . . . what was it? The distillation of Missy Elliot’s contribution to Black feminism? Where you dissected her music videos? That was mad.” His face broke into a shadow of the playful smile I’d seen the other night. “Actually, I was kind of pissed at how good it was. Then I listened to more of Brown Sugar and that made me even more pissed.” He laughed. “You were right. About a lot of things. And, even if I didn’t agree . . . I just think you have a really interesting perspective. A cool voice.” He paused as if catching himself and cleared his throat. “I just thought I’d tell you that. She sent it to me. She’s been talking about you to me—without ever mentioning your name—since I transferred at the beginning of the year. I got kinda jealous.”  “Why, you got a crush on her?” The main function of the question was to distract myself from the fact that Malakai liking my work elicited a bloom of pleasure in me.  Malakai laughed and rubbed his chin. “Don’t you?”  “Obviously. She’s fine as hell.” I made eye contact with a terrier, waddling along with its owner. “Thank you, by the way. For saying all that. About my work, I mean.”  “Trust me, if I could have chosen to not like it, I would have.” His voice was bone dry. It struck against me, eliciting a spark.  I clamped on my grin and, glancing up at him, admitted, “I watched Cuts.”  Malakai’s gaze snapped to me. “Is this where you tell me all the ways you hated it as rightful punishment for my behavior?” He was joking but he wasn’t, his eyes softened with gentle wariness.  “Not gonna lie, I was kind of disappointed.” I paused long enough for the curve in Malakai’s lips to collapse infinitesimally. “Disappointed that I didn’t hate it. . . . It was good. Really good. Which sucked for me, obviously, because I fully planned on going back to Dr. Miller like, ‘I thought you said this guy was smart?’”  Malakai was staring at me, his smile sloping out wide now, rubbing the back of his neck again. He needed to stop it. Not only was it infuriatingly cute, it also drew attention to how thick, firm, and muscular his arms were. Seeing them reminded me of when they were wrapped with my palms, satiny and sturdy and warm beneath them. Was I ovulating? I needed to check my period app. I blinked at him. “What?”  “You fucking with me?”  I stared at him, trying to assess if Malakai really cared about what I, a virtual stranger who had shit-talked him on the radio, thought about him. Unless his game was so ultraevolved that it included insecurity as a disarmament tactic in its package, his need to know seemed real.  “Malakai, if I wanted to fuck with you, I would fuck with you.”  A lady pushing a designer stroller shot me a pointed look, like we weren’t in a public place. We were still in west Whitewell after all. I rolled my eyes.  “I think you know that much about me by now. Like, it’s almost causing me physical pain to say this to you.” I faked a dainty sneeze. “Oh man. See? I think I’m allergic to being nice to you, actually.”  Malakai laughed, a surprisingly delightful, loud bark of a laugh. The air around us was cool but the force of his bellow seemed to push it up a couple degrees. “Thank you. Seriously. Cuts got me into my course. I sent it with my personal statement.”  “What made you want to make it?”  “That barbershop is owned by a man I call Uncle K.”  “Ah. Super K’s Kutz,” I said, recalling the name I saw emblazoned on the storefront in bold white italics against black gloss.  “Right. I kind of half grew up there. Uncle K and my dad were old friends, from when they first arrived in England. My dad moved to Naija for work when I was seven, but before that he used to bring me along for his trims, then he took me for my first cut.” Malakai dropped a half- swaggering smile. “Couldn’t tell me shit on the playground on Monday.”  “Bet all the girls wanted to play house with you.”  “Yeah, but my true calling was football. Didn’t want to be tied down.” Malakai’s rogue grin grew wider at my rolled eyes. “Anyway, when he left, my mum started taking me. When the trim was over, I never wanted to leave. I loved being there—the men were like uncles to me, cousins, big brothers. The music of it, man. The rhythm. The razors, the football, Fuji music, Motown, Highlife, the banter, the debate, even though most of the time I never knew what they were talking about. I shouldn’t have known what they were talking about half the time!” Malakai lit up, the brightness in his eyes so vibrant, it bounced its way over to me, grabbed the tips of my lips, and made me smile.  “I used to kick off so much when it was time to go that eventually my mum started leaving me there with snacks and a juice box while she ran errands. Working there was my first job—officially at sixteen, realistically at fourteen. Sweeping, cleaning . . . running to the chicken shop with food orders. And, whatever was happening outside, or at home, that place was always safe, always warm. And it wasn’t always safe outside. Wasn’t always warm.” I nodded and Malakai twitched a shoulder. He didn’t have to say what he wasn’t saying. “There was always love there. This, like, solid form of community. Someone had a job interview? Cut on the house. A link? Advice from the elders.”  I let a sly smile slip out. “Oh, snap. So that’s how you became such a relationship expert? Listening to the OGs?”  Malakai rolled a low chuckle in his mouth. “I learnt a lot from them, generally. The film—I guess I wanted to capture the energy I felt in that shop.”  A new side to Malakai had just been revealed to me—it was brighter, his eyes glittering with new, fascinating refractions when he spoke about his work, his home. I liked looking at the dispersions of beams. I cleared my throat. “Well. I think you nailed it.”  His eyes shot gratitude at me. “I appreciate that.”  The sincerity singed my guard. “So, um, Dr. Miller mentioned a new film?”  “Oh, right, yeah. Uh, this is going to sound completely nuts but I’m actually thinking of entering a film competition, The Shades of Motion.”  “Woah. That doesn’t sound nuts. That’s so cool. Isn’t it one of the biggest film festivals for new artists in London?”  “Yeah. Even being short-listed opens up huge opportunities. Cuts doesn’t fulfill the requirements so I’ve come up with another idea. I feel like being short-listed would make filmmaking more than just a hobby, you know? Make it feel legit.”  I frowned. “Make it legit? You study it. You’re good at it. I imagine you love it—”  “I love it so much, man. It’s like . . . magic to me. Being able to capture life that way. Bottle it and open it up at the same time. Share it.”  A quiet fell between us. I could feel us both wondering how we got this far into earnest conversation with each other. It was too late to revert to small talk. I wasn’t sure our dynamic ever really allowed for small talk anyway. After a few moments, Malakai started to rub the back of his neck again.  “Uh, so my dad doesn’t exactly know I study film. I mean my degree is technically film and business studies, but still. I’m hoping that by the time he finds out what I’m really interested in I’ll have something to show for it. Something tangible, you know? Just to avoid all the long talk and headache. And maybe prove something to myself too.” He shrugged. “I mean I probably won’t even be short-listed, and I’m definitely gonna be up against more experienced people—”  “What’s your idea?”  He smiled at me, something warm that momentarily disoriented my vestibular system. I made a mental note to get iron tablets.  Malakai inhaled deeply, as if fortifying himself. “Romance in uni. Dating in uni.”  He noted my quizzical raised brows. “I know how it sounds. But I just feel—objectively—that romance is interesting. Especially here. It runs social interactions in Blackwell. It’s part of our foundation.” It was irritating that I couldn’t argue with this. Evidently sensing this was the case he continued, “I feel like a lot of romance is projected or performative. Not quite a fantasy—”  “But not quite real either.”  He nodded, “Exactly. I also think it would just be a cool way to understand women.”  I snorted. “There it is.”  “Nah, but hear me out.” Malakai flipped so he was in front of me, half walking backward, his gait as smooth as ever. “I just want to understand relationships. I’m honest, okay?” He pressed a broad hand against his chest, head ducking slightly to prove his humility.  “I don’t go into them because I can’t do them. But I want to understand what makes people want to enter them in the first place. What makes people realize that’s what they want?” His arms were spread wide as he stated his case to me, a charismatic preacher. Had I heard his good news, that it’s possible to be a player and not a dick?  “I want to understand the compulsion. And yeah, okay, if I understand gyal through it, that isn’t a bad thing. Maybe I could perfect casual dating without collateral. Knowing how to attend to emotional and physical needs without—”  “Two girls fighting over you at a campus linkup?” I finished.  Malakai grinned brightly at the flat tone of my voice. He repositioned himself next to me. “Right. Is that so bad? Figuring out how to perfect casual dating so you can approach it ethically? You know it’s actually kind of a social good? The boyfriend experience without the stress of actually having a boyfriend. I don’t need birthday presents, I won’t get jealous, but we’ll have a great time together, regardless.”  “So, my gut says it’s sociopathic, but your voice makes it sound reasonable, and my mind can weirdly rationalize it? Which makes me feel like that’s part of the sociopathy. I think you’d be a great cult leader.”  “Mystic Malakai. That’s what you called me, innit? Has a ring to it.”  “Man, you’re just like . . . the worst, aren’t you?”  The widening of Malakai’s really fucking gorgeous smile confirmed my suspicions. There it was—the beatific smile of a cult leader. I shivered, not just due to the chilling social threat of Malakai’s Fuckboi cult, but because the sun was ebbing early and the breeze was getting cooler. Stupidly, fooled by the deceptive and fleeting autumn warmth, I’d left my house without a jacket.  “So where am I supposed to come in?”  Malakai unzipped his hoodie and pulled it off, revealing smooth dark ripples of skin and sinew. He held it out to me casually. “Your show is romance focused—”  I shook my head at the offer of his hoodie. “Oh no—I’m fine. Thank you. I’m not cold.”  Malakai’s gaze flitted across my arms. “Kiki, you have goose bumps. Take the hoodie. It doesn’t have lurgies, I promise. If you take the hoodie, you’re still allowed to think I’m a scourge to man-dating womankind.”  This brought out a short splutter of laughter. I took it from him, desperately hoping that it wouldn’t compromise my feminism. “Thank you. Won’t you be cold, though?”  “I don’t get cold. The same way you don’t sweat. Superhuman tings.”  I swished my smile in my mouth as I pulled the hoodie on, still warm from his body. It hung to my knees, his light, woodsy, vetiver, and detergent scent as insulating as the inner fleece.  “My show is more than just romance. It’s about . . . stopping hearts being broken unnecessarily. Preventing the mess that comes with it. Handling ourselves. Guys get away with so much and we’re supposed to accept it because we’re supposed to want romance, above all else, and they know that and take advantage of it. Monsters are bred. I’m equipping the girls with tools of protection against the Fuckboi endemic—” “‘Fuckboi endemic.’” Malakai released a low whistle. “What did you go through to become an expert in heartbreak?” I froze. I heard his words before his tone registered; it took a second for me to realize there was no accusation. He was looking at me with soft curiosity. Nevertheless, the fact remained, it was none of his business. “Let’s just say I had an eventful time just before I started uni. It gave me a little insight.” “And that insight caused you to call me the Wasteman of Whitewell.” His voice was dry. He was looking at me from the corner of his eye. Kofi and Aminah were far ahead of us now; we were ambling along slowly, more relaxed in our gaits, the autumn breeze blowing across our faces. I could appreciate it, now that I felt warmer. “Tell me more about your film and what you desperately need my help with?” Malakai inclined his head deeply in acceptance of the fact that I wasn’t going to take it back and continued. “Fine. So, I want it to be excerpts—similar to Cuts, but with interviews with young couples, the religious ones abstaining till marriage, the ones out in a club, the dysfunctional ones—but it needs drive. Some kind of narrative angle pinning it down. Right now the plan is kind of like . . . a collage. Which is fun, but it’s missing something. It needs context, direction, a voice. It isn’t saying anything right now. And I’ve been listening to Brown Sugar and I thought, what if I cut snippets from your show? Layer it over the film so you have these two ideas of romance maybe overlapping? We’ll see where it goes. And then I thought, what if you interview the couples? You have the expertise and . . . okay, now you’re looking at me like I just said Taylor Swift’s version of ‘Shake It Off’ was better than Mariah’s.” So, he had listened to my show. “Thank God you’re not holding a drink right now.” I blinked several times, while trying to draw half thoughts into cohesion to help me form a response. It wasn’t that the idea was bad—in fact it was great, in theory—but I was just trying to wrap my mind around the fact that Malakai trusted me enough to be involved in his film. And that it would demand me actually talking to people in real life. Also, while Malakai had an undercurrent of confidence permeating everything he did, something soft flickered across his face when he spoke about his work—and unfortunately, I found it cute.  “You can say no if you want to, obviously,” he continued, “but you would be fully credited as a consulting producer, creative consultant— whatever. And I’d help you with what you need for your project for the NYU program—congrats by the way, Dr. Miller told me about it, said something about us being able to help each other out and. . . . You know what? Now that I am saying this out loud I’m realizing how nuts this is so I’m just going to quit while I’m ahea—”  “Okay.”  Malakai stopped walking. “What?”  I shrugged. “The concept sounds interesting. Not your Anthropological Player ‘understanding women’ ting, because, I mean, ew. But the exploration of campus relationships, it’s really cool. I just have two stipulations. The first, if we win the competition—”  “Unlikely.”  “—if we win, I want forty percent of the prize money. It’s your idea but it’s using my art and my really sexy voice—”  “Twenty.”  “Twenty-five.”  “Deal.” I smiled.  Malakai shook his head. “You just played me.”  “I would have taken twenty. . . . The second condition is what I need from you for my NYU project.”  “Name it.”  Fragments of my plan began to finalize in my mind, clicking into place and turning my mental cogs. I walked ahead, then spun around to face him, beaming. “You have to date me.”  Malakai started laughing—until he noticed the look on my face. He stopped walking, blinking at me, his smile evaporating. The notion of us being romantically involved clearly distressed him. Perfect.  “I’m sorry, what?”  I moved closer to him, getting increasingly giddy now that the idea was solidifying in my mind. “Well, it will be a pretend relationship. Which in hindsight I should have led with, but hey, it didn’t have the same bite. Stay with me,” I said as he continued to look at me as if I had spontaneously sprouted horns.  “I was playing with this idea all afternoon and it just clicked when you were talking about your film. I was thinking about everyone’s reactions to that kiss on Friday. Yeah, people acted like they were shocked, but really, they were kind of turned on. Fascinated by the theater of it. As proven by the comments on social media today.” I slid my phone out of my back pocket and took him through the same social media route Aminah had taken me on just hours earlier. Malakai stepped to me, peering down at my phone, eyes furrowed in concentration. Man, he smelled really good. I had to force myself to focus.  “See? After the initial shock, people were into it. It was entertainment for them. The display of romance was enough for them to buy into it. The drama of it. For my NYU application I need to grow my platform, build it into something bigger than it already is.”  Malakai nodded, still confused but apparently, weirdly, still with me. He looked up from my phone. Rubbed his chin. “What are you thinking, exactly?”  I tried to subdue my excitement but I felt it bubbling up out of me, as I slid my phone back into my pocket. “Okay, so I don’t date, and you . . . well, you do. A lot. But not with the view of an actual long-term relationship, am I right?”  Malakai levelled an even gaze at me. “Is this a trick question so you can look at me with those judgy eyes you have going on?”  “I do not have . . .” I threw up a hand. “Judgment suspended.”  Malakai nodded cautiously. “Fine. You’re right. I enjoy the company of women but on the mutually agreed understanding that it isn’t going to be a thing—”  I kept my tone purposefully gentle. “Huh. And how do you know for sure that it’s mutually agreed upon? Like, do you sign a contract?”  Malakai chuckled. “See, that! That right there? Judgment.”  “What! I—it was just a question!”  “You’re judging. I can see it on your face.”  “What’s my face doing?”  “You like . . . tilt your head to the side and then hit a man with a sugar smile. Like a knife dipped in honey.” Malakai mimicked it, batting his lashes and propping a flat hand under his chin as if cherubs came man- sized. A laugh broke out from me and I shoved him; he dramatically stumbled back half a step, rubbed the part where I touched him as if soothing a bruise.  “Fine. Sorry. Let me start again.” I cleared my throat. “You don’t do relationships! Neither do I. So, I was thinking about something I mentioned the other night—”  “Before you poured a drink on my—”  “Sure, yeah. It was about the radio show? I know I said it as a joke but Aminah was right, there’s something in that. I started thinking about how interesting it would be to have a show that explores all the ups and downs and drama that happens when two people get together. Providing an insight into what guys and girls think and want. Made all the more interesting by the fact that we are two people who historically don’t do relationships. The audience won’t know it’s fake and we can call it . . . something like Gotta Hear Both Sides. Kind of like a radio reality show. It’s a format development so will help me fulfill my requirements for the internship, boost ratings, plus, not to toot my own horn, but what better way to launder your rep than date me, the resident romantic agony sis—”  “I definitely heard a toot there.”  “It was more like a beep.”  Malakai’s eyes flashed. “You know, dating me would launder your rep too.”  “Sure. If they think I’m with you it justifies the kiss. It’s great PR for both of us. The show can be a special episode we do every couple of weeks. People can write in, ask questions, we can debate and your presence will hopefully pull in the straight male demographic. Plus Dr. Miller said she wants me to step outside my comfort zone, and how better to do that than to work with someone I’m fundamentally opposed to.”  “Aw, shucks.”  I smiled and Malakai shook his head. “Why don’t you date, again? It kind of doesn’t make sense. You’re fi—cute. You’re smart and you have a reasonably tolerable personality when you’re not slandering an innocent young Black man.”  I opened my mouth to reply, but there was too much and it was too dense, too heavy to haul out even if I wanted to. I pulled out the easiest response. “I don’t want to give myself to someone who doesn’t know what to do with me. I . . . don’t want to lose myself.”  Malakai was staring at me like he had a million more questions. The question marks were hot, piercing, and singed my skin, so I broke his gaze and looked ahead at Aminah and Kofi, hands brushing against each other’s tentatively, as they walked side by side, playing with the promise of what might be.  “Don’t get me wrong,” I added, “I think romance can be great in the right context, but it’s so rarely the right context.”  Malakai nodded. “I hear that.” He said it in a way that felt like he really did hear that.  We were nearing the east side of the park now, my sense of smell acting like a compass—spiced scents held in the breeze, curry and patties and fried chicken.  “Okay, so what’s the deadline on all of this?” Malakai asked.  “How long do you think shooting the film will take?”  “About eight weeks?”  “Great. So maybe we could break up by the AfroWinter Ball in December? My deadline is in January, so that works well for me too.”  He narrowed his eyes thoughtfully. “And this is what you need me to do for you to agree to work on my film? It’s nonnegotiable?”  “Nonnegotiable,” I confirmed.  “If we do this, you know you have to socialize, right? I’m a friendly guy.”  “I noticed.”  His smile was wide. “I’m talking parties, events . . . you have to chill with the masses in order for us to be believable. You gotta come out of your tower, Rapunzel. And not just for FreakyFridayz. You ready for that?”  Nope. “Obviously.”  “Well then. Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your braids, girl.”  I rolled my eyes.  Malakai grinned in self-satisfaction. “Man. This is gonna be fun.”  Chapter 10


 You have 9 missed calls from BIG MISTAKE.  BIG MISTAKE: You moved mad on Friday. You know that? (read)  BIG MISTAKE: Kiki you know I got love for you still. Lets stop being silly. You  can still be my queen. (read)  BIG MISTAKE: You know what? Fuck you and fuck him. You ain’t that fine to  be moving like this. (read)  BIG MISTAKE: I know you miss this . . . (click to save image)  BIG MISTAKE Has Been Blocked.

 I shuddered and immediately flipped my phone over so my screen was lying flat on the library desk, exposing my faux-marble phone case. It was irritating that Zack was intruding upon my place of peace, Whitewell Library. It was a listed building and the oldest on the campus; ornate and Gothic, with dramatic high ceilings and looming, yawning atelier windows, which caught and refracted seraphic beams of light. It was my favorite place in Whitewell, both theatrical and practical, a place of windows and universes compacted onto pages.  Reading Zack’s texts here almost felt sacrilegious. Since everything that had happened on Friday I’d forgotten about him. He seemed so irrelevant to what had manifested from our interaction. Zack was a nonentity, a nonfactor, and the blurry phallic graphic he’d just sent me only compounded that.  I took a deep breath, opened my laptop, and whirred it alive. I had work to do. My . . . delicate relationship with Malakai could blow my project up. We needed a concrete plan. I picked up my phone and texted the number he’d given me on the Saturday we agreed to work together.  KEEKS: Hey. We need to have a meeting to figure out logistics, schedules and terms. Let me know when you’re free.

 There. Brief. Polite, not overly friendly, and enough full stops to make known that I was all about the business. Just as I pressed send, a flyer showed up in front of my phone. I looked up to see Adwoa Baker, events coordinator for Blackwell, face grim, holding it out. I blinked at it, refocusing.  BLACK LIVES MATTER OR ALL LIVES MATTER? WHICH IS IT? A DEBATE BETWEEN WHITEWELL ACS AND WHITEWELL KNIGHTS

I snatched the flyer from her. Adwoa was an ally in the Blackwell cabinet, the rest of it being made up of hand-picked members of Zack’s immediate clique. Adwoa was a politics and journalism student who I shared an international relations module with; she lent the cabinet some semblance of competence and was one of the few people I spoke to who wasn’t Aminah. She was five foot two, with a tolerance for bullshit that matched her petite frame, sported a small bubble gum pink ’fro and a constellation of cartilage piercings. She was also my sparring partner in seminars and was a free agent in relation to cliques.  “What the hell is this?” I hiss-whispered as I threw the flyer, which . . . was that seriously English flag juxtaposed over a Pan-African one? It was as unappealing aesthetically as it was ideologically.  “Is he serious with this? Adwoa, this isn’t even a debate. Also, with the Whitewell Knights? Is he on crack?”  Adwoa pulled out a chair and sat next to me, voice low. “I know. I know. And honestly? He’s probably on lots of shit. I tried to stop this but you know how it is with the rest of the cabinet. It’s Zack’s way or no way. Zack thinks it would be good to have an open dialogue.”  I stared at her incredulously. “He wants to debate Black lives with the people who had a Blackface Pimps and Hoes party two years ago? Who constantly petition to get FreakyFridayz shut down because ‘we’re not inclusive enough’?” The reasons included (a) the crowd being aggressive and unwelcoming, and (b) that it was a hotbed for drug sales. Like they didn’t constantly walk around with blizzards in their pockets.  “I know he’s an idiot, but . . .” It was taking a lot of effort to balance the level of my voice with my level of anger. I shook my head and leaned closer to her. “He can’t be this stupid. I mean it looks bad and I know Zack cares about how he looks more than anything.”  Adwoa nodded in agreement. “Yeah. It does. But between you and me, Zack is putting stipends into the cliques’ pockets. The Gyaldem Council, the Vegan Cupcakes, the London Gyaldem, Naija Princesses, Bible Study Babes. The Cupcakes get to go to their little hippy festivals, the London Gyaldem throw their parties, Bible Study Babes get to take their field trips to whatever Christian singles conference is going in London—so they all think that Zack is doing a good job. And, outwardly, he is. The girls are happy, so they’re not asking questions.”  I frowned. “You mean questions like where the hell is he getting the money from? I know his family has bank, but I don’t think his allowance is enough to support the social life of every main clique in Blackwell.”  Adwoa shrugged. “I don’t know. All I know is that he’s getting away with throwing a stupid debate that discredits what Blackwell is supposed to be. I’m pissed that nobody gives a shit. I’m just the token gay they allowed in to show how ‘woke’ they are. All they want me to do is pass out flyers on campus. These are all going in the bin, of course, but it’s not going to make a difference. Not with social media.” Adwoa’s voice dipped with solemnity. “Kiki, you have one of the biggest platforms in Blackwell. You can help fight this. If you mentioned it on your show, maybe started a petition—”  I shook my head, my anger cooling to discomfort. “Adwoa, this is bullshit. For sure. But you know Brown Sugar isn’t about that. I don’t do politics. There has to be another way to stop this.”  Adwoa’s eyes scanned me in confusion, as if she couldn’t compute what I was saying. “Yeah. There probably is. But you’re the best way, Kiki. You have the visibility. You’re the only person Zack even pretends to listen to. What are you scared of?”  Lack of control. My life was clearly demarcated and I didn’t need anything to make it messy. I didn’t need to get into a political feud with a guy I was trying to distance myself from and who had ammunition against me. If people knew we had hooked up it would discredit me completely, and I’d only just got a handle on the situation with Malakai. I couldn’t afford exposure that would affect the show’s growth.  “Look, Adwoa, if you start a petition or get someone else to, I will happily support and amplify. But Brown Sugar as a space has to remain neutral. I’m sorry.”  Adwoa rolled her tongue in her mouth and nodded slowly, sliding the flyers off the desk. “Yeah, so am I.”  She was disappointed in me and it stung. This was why I worked hard to have precisely one friend. Adwoa somehow slipped through the net and now I was paying the price with this awful feeling in my stomach. “See you in class?”  Adwoa gave me a weak smile and salute, then walked away.



Brown Sugar Show: Archives  Hi guys,

 It’s your girl, K, and yes, it’s that time again where I break down my advice on  how to maneuver yourselves around mandem. Now, I don’t know if you lot know  this, but I actually have a Ph.D. in fuckboiology. Yes, I, Kiki Banjo, am a doctor of  this particular field of science, and I have taken it upon myself to do a quick  tutorial on a phenomenon we all may be familiar with, but perhaps don’t quite  know the mechanics of: “The Talk.” This is where you discuss the parameters of  your relationship. First, construction is key. The less, the better. Many people make the mistake of  overloading with emojis, bulking to compensate for confidence. Trust yourself and  believe in your sauce. You don’t need extra dressing. You’re a snack, a whole meal  and the offer of your company is a gift—your presence is a present and they can  kiss your ass if they don’t appreciate it, to paraphrase a well-known scholar. Second, be direct. Take control of the situation so your target has little space to  manipulate it. “You free in an hour?” is different from “You free to talk in an  hour?” The latter is powerful—you’re coming from a position of strength. This is  about your desire. “You free in an hour?” comes from a place of need that most  boys love to play with. “You free in an hour?” could lead to a “Maybe,” which  might lead to a “What you mean maybe? You don’t want to talk?” and then he  says, “About what?” A mess. We want to avoid that. Go in incisively. Don’t let  these boys run you mad, my sisters. Once you’re talking, be clear about what you want. If that’s a relationship, be  honest. If it’s something else, be clear about that too. You’re not going into this for  negotiation, you’re going into this for clarification. If he finds your terms  unreasonable, that’s absolutely fine, it means he clearly is not the one for you. Finally, sisters, go forth with the knowledge that you are the shit and you’re not  about to take shit. Whether he wants a relationship with you or not, that still  stands.  Thank you for spending time with me this evening, it’s been a pleasure and,  until next time, stay sweet.

 Yours always,  K.




I pounded my fist against Aminah’s door furiously. “Aminah! Wake up!! 999!!!”  Aminah opened her room door, bare faced, hair wrapped in a silk scarf, and eyes wide as she wrapped her fluffy dressing grown around herself. “Ah ah! What happened? Did Beyoncé drop an album?!”  “No! This is a bad 999!” I shoved my phone in Aminah’s face, and her confusion melted into a slow smirk as she scanned the screen, reading the text out loud: “You about?”  Aminah’s smile widened. She leaned against her door frame, took my phone, and peered closer at the text as if it could reveal more to her upon further inspection, eyes flashing wickedly. “Malakai really sent you a ‘You up?’ text. Spicy!”  I’d been careful in keeping it strictly business in my first message and Malakai just jumped in with a “You up?” text? Seemed pretty brazen to me. I couldn’t understand why Aminah didn’t comprehend how bizarre this situation was. She was smiling entirely too much and assiduously ignoring the fact that I was freaking out. The fact that her grin kept getting increasingly wider implied that she was enjoying me freaking out.  Aminah laughed as I snatched my phone back from her. “Look, he’s taking the initiative to get to know you in a regular way. Nothing wrong with that. Besides, don’t you have to be comfortable with each other to pretend to be a couple for two months?”  The validity of her point was inconvenient. “Fine, yes, sure, but this is how he wants to get to know me? You don’t think this is kind of overly familiar?”  “You literally have had the boy’s tongue in your mouth.”  “Notwithstanding—”  “Notwithstanding?”  “Why is he asking me to hang out through the construct of a booty text? At eleven thirty P.M.? He couldn’t ask me out for a coffee? I told you he was a Wasteman. I mean ‘You about?’ Who even says that?”  Aminah bit her bottom lip in a way that looked suspiciously close to her restraining a laugh. “Uh, someone who wants to know if you’re about, innit. It’s sexy.”  I grunted, rolled my eyes, and walked out of the fluorescent industrial lights of our flat hallway, pushing into her warm, lamp-lit room, ushered in with the comforting scent of coconut oil, designer fragrance, and the sound of Drake murmuring from her speakers, as I said, “You’re not taking this seriously.”  Aminah walked in after me and watched me sit on her plush pink beddings, hugging a fluffy fuchsia pillow to my chest. “I think you’re taking it too seriously.”  I shook my head. “I can’t deal with this. I have a stress headache. Also, I think I’m getting sick. I’m sweaty. My palms are sweaty. The inside of my stomach feels sweaty.”  Aminah nodded and sat next to me, pressing the back of my hand against my forehead. “Poor baby. Did the sickness start the second he texted you?”  “What? Maybe? I don’t know. I didn’t look at the time—”  “You’re nervous, Keeks.”  I lifted my head up from the pillow I had been squeezing and stared at her. “About what?”  Aminah scooted back on her bed and folded her legs. “About the fact that a boy you’re attracted to just texted you. I know you’re not used to that emotion but it’s pretty normal for us mortals—”  “Your logic is flawed. I was attracted to Zack and I never—”  “You were physically attracted to Zack, sure. But you and Malakai connect. You have like a . . . vibe. There’s a different dimension to it.”  I opened my mouth to argue but Aminah shook her head. “Don’t bother to deny it. Don’t think I wasn’t watching you guys at the park being all deep in conversation. I swear I heard you giggle. It was like you were being pulled toward each other. Your arms kept bumping and you were wearing his hoodie—”  “I was cold. We were arranging our projects. Also are you forgetting the fact that he admitted to using me?”  Aminah flipped a hand, shooing that little titbit away like it was an inconsequential piece of information and not potential evidence proving that the boy was a sociopath and master of deceit.  “Please, I don’t care what he says. That guy likes you. I saw it in his face.”  “Maybe he’s attracted to me. I have tits and I breathe. He’s a twenty- year-old man. Physical attraction is separate from liking, Minah, and that’s the mistake a lot of girls make.”  Aminah raised up a palm to silence me. “He could have left you at any point to fix this mess on your own, but he didn’t. Besides, you used him too. Also, I don’t think Kofi would be friends with a dickhead. Kofi swears to me that Malakai’s not a dickhead, and Kofi knows that if he ever lied to me, I would cut his ogede off.”  I stared at her. “How many times have I told you that referring to a penis as a plantain is very disturbing to me. I don’t like it. Plantains are sacred. Don’t ruin them for me.”  Aminah smirked and stared pointedly at my phone.  Aminah’s erroneous thoughts aside, I might as well get this out of the way. We had to meet at some point. I tapped my reply before I could think my way out of it.  KEEKS: Depends what I’m meant to be “about” for.

 Aminah peered over my shoulder and grinned. “Hey. Is that my Killa Keeks?”  I was about to toss my phone behind me, forget about it, preparing to be pissed off when he replied in an hour with something monosyllabic, but my phone chirped almost immediately.  MALAKAI: Food.

A pause.  MALAKAI: On me.  KEEKS: I prefer plates if that’s ok.  MALAKAI: Oh, you one of them boujie girls. I’ll try and sort something out. No promises.

I smiled. Aminah stared at me. I rubbed my grin away and widened my eyes. “What?” Aminah shook her head with a smirk and shrugged. “Nothing.” My phone buzzed again. MALAKAI: I’ll be over in 30 to pick you up.

 My blood spiked. I dropped my phone on my bed like it was on fire. My palms were prickling with something hot and liquid.  “Pick you up? Shiiit dass hot,” Aminah whisper-hissed into my shoulder.  I was going to argue but I couldn’t lie, the message was charged with a confidence that sent a sharp thrill up my spine. Among other places. I ignored the spark and rolled my eyes at my best friend.  “Why are you acting like this is a real date? It’s basically a field trip with a research partner who gets on my nerves.”  Aminah looked at me like she was worried I was losing my capacities. “You didn’t even respect Zack enough for him to get on your nerves.”  “Aminah, just because Malakai gets under my skin doesn’t mean—”  “—that you want him on your skin?”  “That wasn’t what I was about to say.”  Aminah frowned. “Weird. I feel like you were.”  A reluctant grin spread on my face. “I don’t want to be your friend anymore.”  “I take that into consideration, and I henceforth reject it. So, given that you’re currently in a ratty old bootleg T-shirt from Drake’s 2016 tour and joggers with a toothpaste stain, what are you going wear for your date? We have twenty-five minutes till show time. Eight, if we take away makeup.” Chapter 11


He was wearing gray sweatpants. Gray sweatpants, a gray hoodie, a white tee, and that gold chain. He was leaning against a blue three-door Toyota in the student car park, looking at his phone, the yellow streetlamps making him look like an angel decked in Nike as I approached him. I wanted to turn back immediately. My knees felt like they had been hit from behind by something blunt. I had not prepared for this. I’d washed and moisturized my face, applied barely there makeup—a slick of lip gloss and some mascara, and Aminah had dabbed on my cheekbones a sample of something that promised a dewy Hollywood glow. My braids were pulled into a high bun to accentuate it and I’d slipped on my standard ten-centimeter gold hoops. I looked cute, but I was not primed to attack. Not like him. Aminah had wanted me to wear a black, deep-cut bralette with a leather jacket along with my ripped, high-waisted mom jeans. I had refused—I wasn’t about to be the love interest in a nineties R&B video. A nonsensical super-cropped baby pink sweater that hovered just below my bra and showed my belly piercing had been the compromise. Now, I kind of wished I had worn the bralette. Not because I wanted to seduce him, but because he had clearly come to a sword fight with a gun. Two guns—the hoodie hugged his arms. They certainly had girth. And curves and dips to rival my own. They might have even looked better in my jeans.  I cleared my throat as I got closer to the car. Malakai lifted his head at the sound, almost looking startled to see me, his eyes skipping across my form not quite quickly as he straightened and slipped his phone into his pocket.  “Hi.”  I nodded. “Hey.” Immediately balking at how soft and shy I sounded, I kept my face still, slathered sarcasm into my voice to weigh it down, before continuing. “Sorry if I’m underdressed. Prom dress was at the cleaners.”  The smile glinted in Malakai’s eyes, and I felt the potential awkwardness subside as we slipped back into what I now realized was our rhythm.  “Don’t worry about it.” Malakai’s gaze grazed my body again, the friction enough to make heat run from the base of my stomach to my cheeks. “You’re good. Left your corsage at home, anyway.”  I regretted wearing something that showed off my middle. What if the butterflies flew too close to the edge of my stomach, so he could see the imprints of their wings pressed up against my skin?  Malakai smiled widely and pushed himself off the car door to open it for me. He bowed with an exaggerated flourish. “After you, princess.” The south London gait and swagger wrapped itself around his words and lodged his tongue in his cheek.  I slipped in the front seat. “Ew. I’m not a princess.”  “I know that. You’re both Beauty and the Beast. Just wanted you to know how it feels to be given a title that don’t suit you.” He shot me a tiny, sloping, dangerous smile and shut the door on my parted, wordless mouth.

Malakai maneuvered his way around our nauseatingly picturesque university town with ease, smoothly making his way down hilly avenues lined with gold-leaf molting trees, gently pushing the steering wheel with one hand as we drove past sprawling, gated, suburban houses. The way his other hand wrapped around the gearstick brought to attention just how large it was, emphasizing its sinews. I was definitely checking him out.  Malakai glanced at me quickly before bringing his gaze back to the road. “You good?”  It was then I realized I hadn’t spoken in about eight minutes. I pulled the sleeves of my sweater down to cover my hands more and folded my arms across my chest. “Um, yeah. I’m fine. Just a little cold.”  Malakai swivelled the temperature dial toward the red arrows, an action that served as a lesson to me about lying because my skin was actually prickling with heat.  I cleared my throat. “So. Where we going? McDonald’s?”  Malakai laughed and his hand wrapped around the gearstick again as he deftly maneuvered, glancing at me before kissing his teeth gently. “What you take me for?”  “You really want to know?”  A shadow flitted across Malakai’s face. He rolled his tongue in his mouth as he pulled into a road I’d never seen before. “Okay, let’s continue to withhold judgment. We’re dating now remember? That’s why I chose food for our first meeting. It’s universal. Best way to get to know someone is over a good meal. And I chose this time—late, with no warning—because I didn’t want to give you time to overthink.”  “How do you know I overthink?”  Another glance as we stopped at a traffic light. “You do a lot of that on your show. And it works most of the time but not for all things. So, I thought I’d give you a break from that. Late night text gives you no time to think. Means you have to go with your gut. You’re either in or out. And you’re here. Which means you’re in.”  My eyes explored the thrilling curves and angles of his profile, but I said nothing. This was alarming because I usually had something to say. It was my job to have something to say. I needed to have something to say. But he was right, there was some freedom, a rush, in deciding to dip out of campus during a weekday night. It was the same rush that came when I’d decided to kiss him.  Malakai’s profile broke and shined light as he released a small half smile. “McDonald’s? Really?”  “Everything else in this town shuts at eleven P.M. unless it’s a club!”  “Maybe in the part of town you know. Also, I would never take a girl out to McDonald’s. Big ballin’, baby, when I’m courtin’ you.”  I curbed the grin that immediately wanted to erupt. “Did you just quote Jay-Z to me?! Don’t do that. Also, you’re not courting me.”  “Big ballin’, baby, when I’m fake courtin’ you.”  A laugh leaped out of me and I brought my sleeve-covered fingers to my mouth in an attempt to push it back in, looking out of the window at the amber-and-dark-green blur of trees and streetlights that enshrouded large red brick houses with black gates—usually with two SUVs parked in the driveway.  “You’re not funny.”  “Too late. I already heard you laugh.”  “It was a cough.”  “Sounded like a giggle.”  I turned to him. “You were mistaken. I don’t giggle. There was something in my throat. Do you have a lozenge in the glovebox?”  “I do, but you’re not getting it. I want to hear you cough again.”  “Why, sicko?”  He paused as he made a turn. “It was a cool sound. I liked it.” His eyes were fixed straight on the road but his lips curved gently.  Heat rose to my cheeks as silence fell, but this time it was comfortable. I relaxed into it enough to notice that I had been into every song that had played in the car. New R&B mingled with old school R&B, and as Maxwell’s “The Suite Theme” flowed into Drake’s “After Dark,” I realized that I had expected that progression. I picked up Malakai’s phone from where it lay in the little holder between us and tapped it alive. Sure enough, the playlist was Brown Sugar Show Presents: Late Nights. I usually made them after the show for my own fun, before sharing them on our social media accounts. I didn’t know that anyone else actually listened to them. I made them because it was fun for me, selecting a mood and seeing where it took me. It was me at my freest, allowing myself to move according to my own rhythm, going with my instincts.  “You didn’t have to play this just because you’re riding with me. I know that’s your thing. Studying girls to know what they’re into so you can impress them with it.”  Malakai’s brow quirked, as he threw me an amused look. “Man, you are arrogant. Don’t gas yourself, Banjo. It was what I was listening to before. It’s a good playlist. This music is my shit. But I have to ask, did you name your show after yourself or the D’Angelo song?”  The question caught me off-guard, and I stared at him curiously for a few moments before replying. “Uh, the D’Angelo album. My favorite D’Angelo song is ‘When We Get By.’ Sounds like sunshine. Sounds like how I think love feels.” I spoke before I realized what I was saying. It was the truth. But it came from a part of me that wasn’t close to the surface. I regretted the exposure immediately, dreading the awkward silence that would inevitably follow. But Malakai didn’t flinch.  He nodded thoughtfully instead, rubbed his chin. “Nice choice. I have to cheat. Mine is ‘Nothing Even Matters.’ Can that count even though it’s a duet and on Lauryn’s album?”  “No, because if we were counting that, then I would choose it as my favorite, too.”  “And God forbid that we agree on something.”  I chewed my grin. “Anyway. Why did you ask if my show was named after me? What if I was ‘Brown Sugar’?”  “Oh, yeah. Then I was going to say that the nickname doesn’t suit you.”  I turned to him so viciously that my butt shifted in the seat.  “Excuse me?”  Malakai shrugged. “Sorry, but, I mean, sugar is nice. It sweetens. That’s cool. But you’re not nice. You’re more than that. You’re more like . . . ata rodo.” His voice dipped into Yoruba tonality as he slid into our shared ancestral language. “A scotch bonnet can make things less bland, adds flavor, makes stuff feel more exciting. Richer.”  I could see the glint in his eyes from where I was sat.  “And if you’re rubbed the wrong way you can make someone’s eyes water. You’ve gotta respect the mighty scotch bonnet. Looks inoffensive from the outside, cute, even, kind of like a berry, but it’s able to bring a grown man to his knees. Should be handled with care, but it can take care of itself. “  Malakai interrupted his nonchalant tone with a little woop. “Hold on, this is my shit!”  He turned the volume all the way up on Anderson Paak. I could tell by the sharp pivot that Malakai hadn’t thought about what he’d said. He’d just said it. Like it was true. I bit deep into his words and waited for my teeth to sink into their counterfeit charm, concocted to get something from me, but all I could taste was something rich and warm and smooth, and it spread through my chest, rushed to my face.  We pulled up in the Eastside, in front of what looked an old-school diner, with Sweetest Ting in bright pink shining lights.  I dipped my head in concession. “Alright. This looks cool.”  Malakai glanced at me with that wicked, smiling, sidelong look he’d perfected as he turned off the engine. “If we’re really doing this, you’re gonna have to trust me, Scotch.”  The name tripped off his tongue and sank like it belonged to me, coated my muscles, made me feel relaxed. I wanted to brush it off, tell him not to call me that, but all I was able to muster was a roll of my eyes and a curl of the corner of my mouth. “Chill out, Nay-Z.” The butterfly wings were definitely scraping the walls of my belly now and I hoped food would settle them, make them lethargic.  Malakai pulled a face. “Oh, man. That was terrible.”  I narrowed my eyes. “Your face is terrible.” Oh no. Was I losing my touch? What was happening? Did his sweatpants neutralize me?!  Malakai nodded. “Huh. That’s funny. Because I recall you describing me as ‘tall and hot and dark’ on your show.”  “Who said that? Not I.”  “Like coffee. ‘Keeps you up all night.’”  “I think I said that coffee also gives you the shits.”  “‘A snack, a beverage.’”  “I’m not hungry anymore.”  Malakai laughed and its force knocked out a few thousand more defenses.  The restaurant was balmy and vibrant, the sweet-and-spicy golden-fried scent of indulgence warming our faces as we entered. It was a marriage of a nineties Missy Elliott video and something out of Grease. The glossy black- tiled walls were spangled with silver specks as if trying to approximate the starry night outside, and above us spotlights were embedded in the black ceiling (little pastiches of Malakai’s eyes—I’d never seen a dark so bright). Black booths with magenta pleather lined the walls, and a large flat-screen TV hung against the furthermost one, where a Donell Jones video played. It was extra in the best way, reminding me of fur coats and sunglasses in a club: superfluous, deliciously decadent, a stunt.  It was the coolest place I’d seen in my time at Whitewell, and it seemed strange that Malakai had discovered it in the two months he’d been here. People our age and maybe a little older sat in booths, or on swiveling pink stools in front of marbleized black poseur tables, laughing, talking, bouncing their heads to the music, restrained by their own cool, or stepping up, arms up, fully dancing in their spot, freed by it. This was grounded glam, puffer jackets over body-cons, jewelry layered over joggers that were punctuated with crisp creps. It had the elegance of a queen’s court.  Malakai ushered me inside, but I hung back, choosing to soak it all in, follow his lead. He walked in with a calm confidence, an urbane gait, not like he owned the place but like he belonged, comfortable in his skin. He nodded and smiled at a few people seated in the booths, spudded a few guys, threw out a few whatsgoingonmans and walked up to the glass counter. He leaned over to clap hands with the guy behind it, an older-than- us-but-youngish man with the sleekest shape-up I’d ever seen, an earring, and a bright pink shirt sporting Sweetest Ting on it.  Malakai smiled at him. “Oga, how fa?” he said, slipping into a Lagos-boy accent that suited him. It was frankly obscene that his sexy came in layers that became more exposed the longer I spent with him.  The olderish guy released a spirited grin. “Aburo, we dey.”  His eyes drifted to where I stood and his grin melted into a warm smile. He wiped his hands on a white cloth, threw it over his shoulder, and leaned on the counter. “Now, who is this queen?”  Malakai moved closer to me. “Kiki, this is Meji—owner of this fine establishment and my adopted big bro. Adopted big brother by force. Meji, this is my . . . friend, Kiki.”  I waved, and Meji’s eyes twinkled as his smile broadened. “A pleasure to make your acquaintance, Malakai’s . . . friend. What’s your full name?”  “Kikiola.”  Meji inclined his head in a bow. “Total wealth. Complete wealth. Pure wealth. Sounds about right. You look like royalty. What you doing with this jester?”  My shoulder twitched up with the corners of my mouth. “Charity. A queen isn’t a queen if she doesn’t give back to the needy.”  Meji released a low whistle. “Ho ho! I like her, Malakai.”  Malakai stared down at me, his smile glinting. “Wow. Is that what we’re on tonight? Okay. Cool. Good to know. Enough. Look”—he glanced at Meji, gesturing to the black bag slung over his shoulder—“I’m here to work. And eat. I’m making a film. Free publicity for Sweetest Ting obviously.”  Meji grinned. “Say less. Of course. The pictures you took for our ProntoPic page made such a difference, brother, I appreciate it.”  Malakai looked uncomfortable at the praise. “Nah. It’s nothing, man. It’s the least I could do.”  Meji playfully slapped Malakai’s arm before turning to me. “A good man. He may be ugly but he has a great personality.”  Malakai laughed. “I’m giving you two stars on Yelp.”  The man bowed, then gestured to an area in the corner of the parlor. “Got that booth ready for you. Best one in the house. I usually reserve it for my girl and her girls, but I don’t think she’s coming tonight. She saw something in my ProntoPic inbox she didn’t like. Someone will be with you when you’re ready.” “Needy?” Malakai’s voice was low and arch as we walked over to the booth. I slid onto the pink pleather cushiony seat, leaned my elbow on the table, and rested my chin on my fist. “We’re going to eat before we get into filming, right?” I said, ignoring him. “I’m starving. How long we got?” Malakai shot me a tiny smile, wordlessly sliding the menu over to me. He looked at his watch. “This place closes at two A.M., so a couple hours. It’s almost morning, so technically it’s breakfast time. Check out the plantain waffles.” “Wait, what?” My eyed widened as I picked up the menu and scanned it. “Plantain waffles with hibiscus syrup and chicken—an option of suya or Southern fried. Akara burgers with yam fries or sweet potato fries . . . beef suya burgers.” It was an American-Naija fusion menu. My mouth watered. There was no space for posing. My obsession was too immediate to subdue. “This is so cool. I wonder if they make the yaji from scratch.” I looked up to see Malakai was watching me. Heat rushed to my cheeks. I didn’t need him to see me get nerdy over the composition of spice. “Uh. My family owns a Nigerian restaurant.” “I know. Saw it on your ProntoPic page. And yeah, Meji makes yaji from scratch. Don’t let him hear you questioning that.” I tilted my head. “So you cyberstalked me.” “You didn’t cyberstalk me?” My smile tickled the inside of my mouth as his eyes attempted to tease it out. Denial didn’t seem worth it. After a silent tug of war, I cleared my throat and squinted down at the menu to disguise my defeat. “Your niece is adorable.” “Thanks, she is.” I heard the grin in his voice. “My cousin’s little girl . . . I liked that picture of you at the beach.” I stared harder at the menu. I knew the photo. Barcelona. Aminah’s and my first trip together. I was in an audacious blood-orange bikini that rounded and pushed my cleavage, bought with Aminah’s encouragement. My arms were outstretched and I was looking up and smiling wide. I squinted at the dessert options and released a more-prim-than-I-intended “Thank you.” “And I’m glad you like the menu.”  I looked up from it, to meet the arched slant of his lips. Despite it, the bright in his eyes was earnest. “I do. How did you find this spot?”  Malakai rubbed the back of his neck and leaned back in his seat. He hesitated for a moment before replying, the default lightness on his face dimming in the shadows. He cleared his throat and leaned forward again, as if gathering what he needed to tell me.  “Uh, so I’d just transferred and was wandering through this part of town looking for something that would remind me of home. It was late, around this time. Anyway, I stopped near here, taking pictures in the middle of the road. . . . The chicken and doner shops look so bright in the night, like beacons. An oasis. Lighthouses. I wanted to capture that. Anyway, maybe I’m an idiot for taking pictures at night in the most policed area in Whitewell.”  Instinctual dread of what was to come cooled me as he continued, voice flat, matter-of-fact. “They pulled up, asked me what I was doing. I said I was just taking pictures, said I went to Whitewell, said I was a film student, all of that. ‘Yes, sir.’ ‘No, sir.’ Didn’t make a difference. I wanted to spit in their faces. I kept it polite. It’s funny”—the wry line his mouth pulled into compounded the fact that it was the opposite—“it was like, the more polite I was the angrier they got. And every instinct in me wanted to fight, you know? But what good would that have done? And it’s not that it hasn’t happened before. Of course, it has. I’m from South. But I really thought I could have a break from that here. Anyway, they wanted to stop and search. I asked them what for and they said I was being aggressive.”  Malakai released a dark chuckle and rubbed his jaw. “This was the first week of term and I didn’t know anyone. Kofi had to go back to London for a family thing that weekend. I was alone. Like for real, alone. I don’t even know how it happened, don’t know if it was five seconds or five minutes, but something must have happened, I must have said something—or maybe nothing was enough—but they had me pushed up against a car, hands behind my back while they searched me. Three of them. My camera drops. The camera I saved for a summer to get. Lens cracks. I feel it. Can’t get to my phone to film what’s going on.  “Anyway, Meji must have heard and he comes out. Meji’s kind of a big deal around here. A big brother, uncle to everyone, all the shop owners know him. Even the police know not to fuck with him. Meji went to law school in Nigeria and he’s the smartest guy I know. So, Meji comes out and asks them what they’re doing. They stutter. He asks them again, ‘What’s the reasonable grounds?’ And I’m shaking, man.  “I try to tell him what’s going on but I can’t talk. He says, ‘A young man taking pictures?’ They stutter. He gets his phone out, starts talking about rights, how what they’re doing is illegal. They let me go. The police say some shit. It’s all bluster. They’re scrambling. Meji ignores them, brings me back here, and gives me food. He calms me down and tells me to breathe. And that’s how he became my big bro. That’s how I found this place.”  I sat back in my seat, the full force of what he said pushing me. My stomach was a swirl of sickness and sadness and indignation, a cocktail that caused my hand to fly over to his and squeeze. “Malakai . . . I’m sorry. So sorry that happened to you.” But it felt useless, trite, and I felt embarrassed at how pathetic, how useless my words sounded.  Malakai’s eyes dropped quickly to our hands, and he gave me a small, weakly reassuring smile. “Thank you. It’s fine, though.”  I shook my head, my eyes surprising me by stinging slightly. “No. It isn’t. It’s fucked.”  Malakai swallowed, and I realized his eyes were slightly glassy too. “It’s fucked. Which is why I don’t get the bullshit debate the ACS is doing next month. Black Lives Matter versus All Lives Matter? Who signed off on that? Zack really is a prick, man. What does he even get out of that?”  I removed my hand from Malakai’s and swallowed hard. “I have no idea.”  A waiter came over to take our order and the ordering process gave me sufficient time to try and digest the new version of Malakai forming in my head, a version of him that roamed the roads at night trying to capture the light of a chicken shop because he found it beautiful.  “Sorry,” Malakai said, leaning forward as the waiter walked off to hand in our orders. “I don’t usually talk about institutional racism on first dates.”  I relaxed again. “Really? Weird. I thought it was standard.” I let my eyes drift over to a booth where a boy was playfully serenading a girl along with the Pharrell and Snoop ditty playing from the speakers. She was pretending to hate it, slapping his arm just to touch him. My gaze returned to his with a twinkle. “So, this is a first date?”  The corner of Malakai’s mouth ticked slightly upward. “Thought this would be the perfect place for a chill preliminary meeting to get to know each other as project partners. Also, this place is a hot date spot. There are about eight couples here right now that would be perfect for the film.”  I looked around and saw that he was right. The pair I had just seen were one of many. A few were our age, some were clearly sneaking out, and one was closer to Meji’s age. All of them looked like they were at various stages of romance: a couple that was sitting so close to each other and looking so lustful that there was a possibility that they were violating several health codes under their table; another sharing a plate of food; one in which the woman was commanding a man to read some texts back to her, irately.  I nodded at him. “So, you must have brought a few girls here, then?”  “You’re the first, actually.”  I couldn’t help but cackle. “Malakai, what do I look like? This place is sexy and opens late. We’re here to be real, remember? Tell me the truth. You take them here, have the same routine with Meji, tell them to order the plantain waffles, drive them back to campus, fool around in your car, and fire off a ‘Good morning, beautiful’ text in the morning.”  Malakai met my gaze, eyes totally devoid of irony. “Seriously. You are the first girl I’ve brought here. This is my spot. Maybe I’ll come here with Kofi, but I also come here alone quite a bit. To work, to chill with Meji. Whatever. I’ve made friends here. . . . Don’t you have a spot?”  I flicked my eyes across him in quiet deliberation before leaning forward, resting my jaw on my fist. Dr. Miller said I had to learn to work with others. He’d shared with me so it was only fair that I shared with him. I inhaled deeply.  “Alright. It’s extremely nerdy but there’s this spot in the library I like. African histories. Because no one’s ever there.” I laughed. “It’s in the far corner, away from everything. I smuggle a coffee in and I just chill. Think. Sometimes there’s a book involved, sometimes I’m just listening to a playlist I loaded up. It gives me . . . space.”  Malakai released a slow smile. “Wow. That is extremely nerdy.”  I rolled my eyes. “Shut up. I knew I shouldn’t have told—”  “And extremely adorable.”  I shook my head and hoped it would force down the fierce flush of blood rushing to my face.  “How did it become your place?”  Growth, Kiki. You can’t die from being personal. I stared at the menu once more for fortification, before looking back up at his gentle interest. “Um . . . okay, so there was a period where my family was going through . . . a lot, and I had to take care of my little sister sometimes, pick her up from school. I knew the house would be empty when we got home and the thought of that was just . . . I couldn’t deal with it, you know? She was about nine and I was about sixteen, seventeen. I’d take her to the bakery on the high street and get us two slices of Tottenham cake. I love Tottenham cake, it’s still my go-to comfort treat. Anyway, I’d get us the cake and a cup of hot chocolate that we’d share and smuggle them into the local library. We’d read books next to each other and I’d ask her questions about what she’s reading, and she’d ask me questions about what I’d read, and we’d just . . . escape into these different worlds and forget for an hour or so. I guess when I came to Whitewell, I just gravitated toward the library because it felt safe. And then I found that spot.”  I almost winced. I’d never told anyone that before and I felt acutely exposed. Why had I told him that? “Ugh, that sounded super corny.”  Malakai shook his head. “No, it didn’t. It makes sense. When you’re trying to find footing somewhere, you go to what’s familiar. That’s probably why I ended up on the Eastside in my first week here. Closest place to my ends.” He continued, “Did you ever bring Zack to your spot in the library?”  Relief coursed through me as he’d tactfully avoided what I wasn’t ready to show. I relaxed, furrowing incredulous brows. “I think the library would make him combust into flames, like Trump in a church. He negates the concept of a safe space. He’s a walking hazard.”  Malakai burst out laughing. “Right. My point exactly. Your way of keeping boundaries was like . . . preestablished in the relationship. He couldn’t cross over into knowing you like that because that wasn’t the reason you were with him. Same way I didn’t bring girls here. As much as I may have liked them, I was trying to keep a boundary.”  “But you brought me here.”  “That’s different. There are no expectations. You’re not suddenly going to think that this could be something. You don’t see me in that way.”  A timely reminder. I didn’t see him in that way. And he didn’t see me in that way. Not That Way + Not That Way = No Way. Still, something bothered me.  “You know what I don’t get? If you like these women like you say you do, why would you put up a boundary?”  “I do like them. And I respect them. And I wanted to get to know them— have fun getting to know them. But that shouldn’t have to come with some kind of unspoken agreement to commitment. I’m new here and wanted to meet people, and yes, some of those people happened to be pretty, smart women . . .”  I laughed, shaking my head, my hoops swaying with the mirth. “Malakai, seriously, these girls aren’t unhinged. They’re not moving mad for no reason. They’re cool and strong and maybe they didn’t see your boundaries as boundaries. I totally get that sometimes people project shit onto stuff you’ve never said—take Zack—but I also know that you probably didn’t stop them from getting the wrong idea. And that’s what pisses them off, what causes confusion. They feel like they’re the only ones. A bunch of women feeling like they’re the only ones. That’s why queens like Shanti and Chioma argue over you. And don’t take it personal, but you really ain’t worth it.”  Malakai sat up, eyes thoughtful. He paused to clap hands with a youngish looking guy who stopped by our table to greet him before turning back to me. He rubbed his chin. Again. “I hear you. So, when Shanti started talking about her birthday next year and things we could do together, I should have stopped that.”  “Um. Yeah. You could have tactfully guided her to the right direction. Like ‘It’s always cool to hang out with friends on your birthday.’ I mean, it would suck to hear it but it would be honest. Clear.”  “But I was trying not to be prick. I didn’t want to hurt her feelings—”  “Right, and what happened when you didn’t tell her? You hurt her anyway. Look, letting people know exactly what it is in the beginning saves a lot of stress. On both sides. If anything, she’ll hate you more for leading her on. Delaying it doesn’t make you a good guy, Kai. And I think . . . you might be a good guy.”  The shortening of his name felt right on my tongue, like it was used to the taste, and I wanted to pull it back as it leaped out of me. It was too quick, too nimble. Malakai maintained eye contact, eyes glinting into mine with something that looked like it might have been respect. “So, you think I’m a good guy?”  I shrugged. I hadn’t realized I thought it until I said it out loud. “I said might. I don’t think I would be here with you if I really thought you were terrible.” I paused and l let a smile lick at my voice. “I mean you’re tolerable, at least.”  He smirked. “See, this is why ‘Scotch’ suits you. No sugarcoating.” He hadn’t noticed the “Kai” thing. Good. Or maybe he was politely ignoring it. Also good.  “The truth will set you free,” I said easily.  “So, what was the truth between you and Zack?” He was silken with it, smooth and cool with it.  I shrugged. “There was never any potential there. We both knew that. He only thought he wanted more of me because I didn’t want him like that, and he couldn’t handle it. Rejection doesn’t compute if it isn’t on his own terms.”  “He’s a dickhead.”  As I spoke, my gaze had drifted down to the flashing flakes of faux quartz in the gleaming surface of the black table, but it snapped back up to his when I heard the frank, low brusqueness in his voice.  I traced the silvery gem imitations on the table with a sharp pumpkin- colored nail. “And I knew that. Granted, maybe I didn’t know the extent of his dickhead ways but . . . he couldn’t hurt me. Not really. Even after the other night. I was angry, not hurt. Nothing was bruised, nothing broken. There’s no way I could lose a game if I play by my rules.”  Malakai’s dark eyes focused so directly into me that I felt my pulse flare.  “What made you feel like it’s a game? Or is it a who?”  The waiter brought our food—piping hot and delicious smelling—and I hoped he was also going to serve us a side of distraction, but when he walked away Malakai was still looking at me, his soft gaze questioning.  I swallowed. “A few whos. A couple whats.”  Malakai’s eyes scanned me, and he obviously saw something that made him say, “Got you—whos and whats that you don’t want to talk to me about yet.”  I speared a forkful of plantain waffle and Southern fried chicken into my mouth partly because I was hungry and partly to delay answering him. The waffle had been drizzled with honey instead of maple syrup, the chicken infused with a perfect mix of herbs and spices, its coating crispy, the flesh succulent. It was a perfect explosion of sweet and savory, a sublime balance of honey and spice. I wanted more as soon as it made its way to fill my belly up. It was satisfying and indulgent, enough but also greed-inducing.  Malakai smiled right up to his eyes. “Good?”  I pressed a hand to my chest, closed my eyes, and let out a little moan from the soul.  Malakai roared with laughter. “Good, ’cause not gonna lie, I was feeling the pressure.”  I hadn’t answered his question yet. I thought I got away with it when he started on his own food but then he paused, looked up at me, fork suspended. “Scotch, I want you to know that we don’t have to talk about anything you don’t want to. I’m cool with anything you’re cool with.”  I felt my bones liquify a little, easing something warm around my body. This was probably the longest personal conversation I’d had with anyone that wasn’t Aminah, in my year and a half at Whitewell, and it didn’t feel too long, didn’t feel too personal.  “Thanks. Same. So, do you want to talk about why you transferred here? About whether it’s a who or a what?”  A shadow flitted across Malakai’s face, dimming his smile slightly, and he swallowed. “It’s a complicated who and what.”  “That you don’t want to talk to me about yet.” My words echoed his.  Malakai’s smile returned. “Not yet. Not all of them. I can talk about a who though. She is a notable who.”  She. “I already know she’s fine.”  “She was. Is. She’s also my ex. Ama.”  I perked up. This was how I would discover his Wasteman origin story, despite the fact that “Wasteman” was no longer fitting him as well as I thought it was, splitting and slipping from the image of the new Malakai that had reconfigured in my head. It was baggy on the caricature I’d created of his player archetype, too small on the parts of him I hadn’t known; like his sense of humor and the way he listened. Malakai listened with his whole face, eyes attentive and mouth patient with a penchant to curve heart- stoppingly at the right moments. He gestured at the yam chips I’d thought I’d been surreptitiously eyeing throughout our conversation. And now I discovered that he shared food. What the hell was I supposed to do about that?  I took a chip, managing to say “Tell me everything” with it between my teeth. He grinned as I expertly tossed it into my mouth with a flip of my tongue. “So, what happened between you and Ama?”  Malakai thought about it for a few seconds, eyes narrowed and thoughtful. “She was kind of mean.”  I choked on the chip and had to push it down with a few frantic slurps of Coke. “Is that it? I’m sorry, you broke up because she was mean? Have you met me? Also I hate it when guys call girls mean.”  Malakai laughed and shook his head. “Nah. Look, I get how it sounds. I’m not a sexist prick, I swear. Which is exactly what a sexist prick would say, I realize, but listen. You’re bossy and you say shit how you see it and honestly, it’s cool. I respect it. You know your mind. It’s not like from a fundamentally badmind place. Ama was mean, like high-school-movie cheerleader mean, you know? It was almost parody. Like, she made waiters cry mean. If we were at a birthday dinner and it was time to sing ‘Happy Birthday,’ she’d straight up refuse to join in. She said it was corny. You know how much effort it takes to resist singing ‘Happy Birthday’ when you’re surrounded by people singing it? Like, you really have to make a conscious decision to keep your mouth shut. She mustered that strength.”  I bit down on my lip to keep from smiling. “So why did you date her? I mean she is who she is, so once you figure that out and you don’t like it, maybe it’s on you to stop hanging out with her. At some point you can’t blame her anymore. It’s on you.”  Malakai’s lips quirked up at the corner. “You’re good.”  “So I’ve heard.”  He laughed. “Uh, I guess it was familiarity. We grew up together. Our dads are friends. They work together. It was just kind of a given that we’d date and then we’d go to the same uni. She’d study law and I would study economics. We’d dated for years and she was all I knew. I thought that was what romance was. You’re attracted to someone and you just power through the fact that sometimes you genuinely feel like they’re a stranger to you. Like they don’t really know who you are. I thought distance was normal. That’s what I saw with my parents and I had no reason to think it could be any different.”  His voice had another dimension to it when he spoke about his parents, lightly detached, breezy enough to know it was concealing something heavy. I nodded.  “But you have a point.” He frowned. “I should have ended it. I just thought that part of being a good guy was sucking it up. And we had good moments, like my parents had good moments. So, I just rolled with it, hoping that we’d just figure it out.” Something dark flitted across his eyes —it was only a split second but it was so dark it made me miss his light. “But . . . something happened that made me realize that life is short. Too short to be at a uni I hated, studying a course I hated, and with someone who called me childish for finally having the guts to tell her that I wanted to maybe make movies one day.”  He coughed and there was a bite to his eyes and in his voice that pinched at me. The breakup was just the surface. I decided to leave the dark alone for now.  I sat up, sighed. “Alright. You get to complain about your ex-girlfriend two more times and then I’m going to have to stop you out of feminine solidarity. Okay?”  Malakai shot me a warm look of gratitude. He knew I wasn’t asking what I wasn’t asking. He leaned forward. “She hated The Fresh Prince of Bel- Air. How can you actively hate The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air?”  I laughed and felt the mood shift. “Right. It’s like not liking plantain.”  Malakai spread his arms wide in emphasis. “Exactly. I remember one time I showed her the most emotional episode I could find—”  “The one where his dad disappears again?”  Malakai nodded and smiled. “Gets me every time. You know the bit where he goes—”  “‘How come he don’t want me, man?’” The words leaped out of us simultaneously, as if we’d rehearsed.  Malakai laughed. “Punches me in the gut every time. She didn’t even blink. Her eyes didn’t even get shiny. She said it was overacted.” He paused. “And it’s not like she was incapable of emotion because I saw her get emotional over a werewolf imprinting on a half-vampire, half-human baby in Twilight.”  I snorted as I helped myself to another one of his chips. “Now I know you’re chatting shit.”  Malakai’s eyed widened, and his hands raised up. “Okay, so I’m not a prick for thinking that was weird. When I commented on how creepy it was, she looked at me like I was an idiot and said I was being ‘emotionally basic.’ The only person emotionally basic is Bella, because who the hell would choose a vampire over a werewolf?”  “Facts. But also, my first crush was the Beast, so I’m biased.”  Malakai paused and leaned back, assessing me with a comical expression on his face. As if I’d said something unhinged. “As in the Beast from Beauty and the Beast?”  I shrugged. “Yeah. He was sexy. Like, ‘Yo. What that snout do?’ Obviously, I didn’t think that then. Just now.”  Malakai seemed stunned. “Rah.”  I tilted my head, looking him up and down. “Oh, what, like you’re so special because your first crush wasn’t a cartoon rendering of a creature that was basically an amalgamation of a wolf and a bear?”  Malakai popped three chips into his mouth. “My first crush was on Nala actually.”  “Okay, see, that’s weirder than my thing.”  “How?”  “Because a lioness already exists. It’s a real animal. An anthropomorphic beast doesn’t exist in real life. Well, unless you count Zack. Oh shit, everything makes sense now.”  Malakai’s rumble of laughter was low and rolling. I really wanted to pull my sweater off because it was warm, not just in the diner but inside my body, under my skin. My blood felt fizzy.  “I also have an excellent Twilight joke. Ama hated it.”  “Hit me.”  Malakai slid out of the booth, stood up in front of me, and started stretching, like he was about to do a complicated gymnastics set. “I gotta stand up to perform it.”  I snorted again. “Oh, it’s that deep?”  Malakai gave a single solemn nod, face grave. “Yes.”  He cleared his throat as I looked at him with exaggerated attentiveness, and he bellowed, his voice deep with a Shakespearian gravitas, “Wow, it really sucks that Bella chose the vampire over the werewolf.”  I blinked. “What?”  Malakai’s voice slid back to normal, low and gravelly, loose with a slight south London saunter. “Nah, but do you get it? Sucks? Because of the vampire thing? They suck blood—”  “Yeah man, I get it, it’s just . . . what? Malakai, that’s really, really bad.”  He rubbed his chin as he slid into my side of the booth. “Shit, really?”  I shifted along my seat to allow him in unthinkingly, not even questioning the switch in positions. “Dude.”  Malakai leaned in closer, explaining as a professor would. “Wait, okay then, what about: ‘You would have thought a vampire would have paled in comparison to a werewolf.’ ”  The laughter had steadily built up inside me and I was doubled over, all but falling onto his legs. I felt tipsy, giddy with something I wasn’t entirely sure of, the butterflies now drunk on the sugar high in my belly. I clamped my hand over my mouth. “Oh . . . my . . . gosh . . . that was . . . s-so, so bad. . . . You’re such a fucking dork.” My voice ended in a squeak from the strain of keeping the mirth in. I was too hysterical to be distressed by the fact that I think that what I was doing could have been categorized as giggling.  Malakai was laughing too, but regarding me with some disbelief as I recovered and lifted myself up away from his legs and wiped the corners of my eyes.  “Wow. Okay. This is . . . unexpected and humbling. Nah, stop laughing, it cut me deep. She said she didn’t ‘get’ it.”  I shrugged, little bursts of amusement still spilling out of me. “I mean, I got it, Kai. It was just”—I drank some Coke to drown out the residual chuckles and shook my head, blinking at him innocently—“You think maybe that joke is the real reason why she broke up with you?”  Malakai forced his face straight. “Okay. That’s enough. You know what? I take it back. You’re a very mean person, Kikiola Banjo.”  An errant giggle leaped out. I feigned being emotionally choked up, flattening a hand against my chest. “Thank you.”  “I like it on you, though.”  I stirred my straw through my Coke. We were sat so close to each other in the booth that our knees bumped, reminding me of that time in FreakyFridayz before Aminah interrupted us.  “Probably a fetish. Your ex-girlfriend was mean, but you probably just got bored of her meanness. Didn’t hold the same allure. My meanness is fresh. It probably fascinates you. Maybe you like the challenge more than the person—”  “Kiki, why are you doing that?” Malakai’s smile was simmering into something more serious.  I swallowed and twitched my shoulder, the air shifting to a heavier tone in the same shade. “I’m not doing anything.”  “Yeah, yeah you are. You started talking in the abstract. Flipped the attention off you. Theorized what I said. That’s what you do on your show. This isn’t the show, Kiki. This is just . . . a guy and a girl hanging out. Under weird pretenses, but still. We’re hanging out for real. And I’m saying that I like hanging out with you.”  I held his gaze, trying to find the glint of deceit in his eyes, trying to source a clue that would lead me back to his playbook. Yet again, I came up short. I was glad I came up short. I surprised myself by wanting to come up short.  I shifted, leaning my elbow on the table and curving my palm against the side of my neck as I stared up at him. “You don’t even know me—”  “I’m getting to. I like the bit that I’ve got to.”  His arm was behind me, resting on the back of the booth. He was looking at me from a distinctly kissable angle. All it would take was a few inches of movement from either one of us. His eyes fluttered briefly to my lips and a butterfly flipped inside. Oh no.  I sat up and changed tack.  “We should probably talk about the logistics of this. While we’re here.”  Malakai looked genuinely puzzled. “Logistics?”  “Um. Like . . . physical logistics of pretending to be part of a couple and working on your film?”  Malakai’s eyes popped open as if he’d just remembered why we were here. “Oh, right. Yeah, absolutely. Sure. I’ll follow your lead. What do you think about public hand-holding?”  “Fine. Not sustained hand-holding, though. Only enough for people to see and then I’ll fix my hair or something.”  “Sure. We’re going to have to hang out at public events for a bit so that means FreakyFridayz, café for breakfast, maybe twice a week? House parties too. I have a few birthdays coming up and they’d be great to source interviews for the film.”  I kept my groan internal. House parties were my own form of personal torture. “How are you invited to so many parties? You just got here.”  “What can I say? I’m a delight.”  I grunted. “Fine. Also, um, no more kisses.”  There was no getting around the fact that I was physically attracted to Malakai Korede. I was attracted to him to a degree that would have got me seriously concerned if I didn’t know that we were fundamentally incompatible. Though it was true the more time I spent with him, the more I discovered things I liked about him. Like how when he looked at me as I spoke it was as if he was holding every word I uttered for safekeeping. But that was neither here nor there. The kissing rule was just a case of establishing professional boundaries.  “I agree.”  “Cool. Next time we meet we’ll sort out our timetable. Public events, dates, Gotta Hear Both Sides planning, that sort of thing.”  “Hot.”  “Maybe I’ll put it all in a Google Calendar and share it with you for efficiency.”  His voice dropped octaves. “Kiki, you can’t talk dirty to me in a restaurant.”  “I’m sorry. I just . . . I get so carried away.”  “Clearly.” He ran his eyes across me in theatrical disgust. “Control yourself. We have work to do.” He gestured to the camera on the table. “You ready? . . . You get to choose who we ask first.”  I allowed my eyes to roam across the gradually thinning-out diner, stopping on the couple I saw earlier laughing just a few booths ahead of us. They were sat close on the same side of the booth, like us, talking in murmurs. Touching but not touching, clearly wanting to.  I gave them a chin nod. “Them. First date.”  “Really? Not the couple clearly doing nasty things to each under the table?”  We tilted our heads to look at the couple in question, across the aisle from us. The slow arm movements were very distressing. The girl’s mouth suddenly dropped open. Mine did too, for an entirely different reason.  “Oh.” I broke our short, shocked silence.  Malakai cleared his throat. “Um. I’m sorry. Is she?”  “I think so. Good for her. Only twenty-five percent of women are able to.”  “We should look away. If we stay looking, we’re perverts.” Our eyes stayed glued to the scene.  “Um, we’re the perverts?”  “Let’s go film.”  I stared at Malakai. “What the hell? That would actually make us perverted, Kai. That’s disgust—”  “I meant let’s go film the first-date couple, Scotch.”  “Oh. Okay. Cool. Yeah, let’s do that. It’s getting late.” But it didn’t feel late. An hour and a half had passed and the night still felt like it was just beginning.




[Untitled_Love.Doc]

Director, producer: Malakai Korede

Consulting Producer/Interviewer:  Kiki Banjo

Interviewees: Zindzi Sisulu and Xavier Barker  KIKI: You guys are adorable. You seem really aware of each other at all times. Connected. When did you meet?  XAVIER: About three or four—  ZINDZI: Hours ago.  KIKI: You guys met tonight?  XAVIER: Yeah. And we got talking—  ZINDZI: Andit’s weird because the second I saw him, I knew I wanted to talk to him. And my girls were saying that I was being thirsty, that I should wait for him to come to me. XAVIER:I spotted her as soon as she came in. I told my boy that I was gonna talk to her. But, like, maybe five minutes after that, my ex walks into the party. And she’s with her girls. And I was like . . . man, this shit is about to be long. I didn’t want unnecessary drama. I didn’t want it to seem like I was doing it on purpose. ZINDZI:I’m getting kind of irritated. Because I see him looking at me, and I’m looking at him . . . XAVIER: And my ex is looking at both of us. ZINDZI:And I’m like, fuck it. I’m just gonna go over there and see what’s good. XAVIER: And it was good. Better than I expected it to be. We just clicked. I said I ZINDZI: was hungry, and then we came here. Which was a bold move, actually, because sometimes the vibes you have when you’re around other people aren’t the same when you’re alone. Also we literally just met. XAVIER:But the vibes were the same. Actually, maybe better —at least for me. Shit, have I just exposed myself? ZINDZI: Yep. [Pause] ZINDZI: It was better. XAVIER: Whew, you almost killed me just then. What was so special about that initial conversation that KIKI: made you want to see where it goes? XAVIER: It was just . . . easy. Just easy. That’s it. There was no force to the convo—you know ZINDZI: how sometimes at parties you force it just because you’re supposed to flirt? And it ends up being cringe? There was none of that. KIKI: What would you have done if you’d gone over there and  it had flopped? ZINDZI: Then at least I would have known. Better to know  than not, right? It’s about being brave, innit. But . . . also, I  don’t know, I didn’t think it would flop. I went there  knowing—without knowing. XAVIER: Notgonna lie, I really thought she was peng. That’s  what first drew me to her. But maybe it was the knowing-  without-knowing thing that made me look at her twice.  Let’s go with that, it sounds good. KIKI: Where are you hoping this goes? ZINDZI: Wherever it wants to go. XAVIER: Wherever she wants it to go.


“So, it was better than McDonald’s.”  We were back in the warmth of Malakai’s car, but I think I would have felt warm regardless. The cool, crisp early morning air hadn’t shifted my body temperature—my internal central heating dial seemed to have sprung to the highest mark and got stuck there. The first interview had gone extremely well. The couple were cute, appropriately handsy and clearly in their first flush of whatever their thing was. When we left they were making out outside, against the wall of Sweetest Ting. The other couple had been politely asked to leave.  Malakai grinned at the road. “Told you. Big ballin’.”  “Meji gave us our meals for free.”  “It’s the sentiment.”  I smiled and shook my head. “I had fun tonight.”  Malakai’s eyes were still on the road but I somehow sensed the smile in them from my vantage point. “I’m glad. So did I.”  “For what it’s worth, I no longer think you’re a Wasteman.”  I’d been preparing for some gentle gloating, for him to ask me to say it louder, but instead of the smirk I had expected to draw up on Malakai’s face, he was silent for a few seconds, his face thoughtful.  “It’s worth a lot.”  I tore my gaze from the road to his profile in question.  Malakai glanced at me. “Look, I’m not saying being called out didn’t suck, because it did. And I was pissed, obviously. But I think part of why I was pissed was because I was shook that you might have been right. I didn’t mean to be that way but I can see how it looked. Maybe I could’ve been clearer with how I approached things. Maybe . . . maybe, low-key, I knew what would happen if I was clearer.  “The girls weren’t wrong to expect more. But it’s like the more you invest in something the more likely it is that you’re going to hurt someone. I didn’t want either. I didn’t want to emotionally tangle myself up with someone. I’m a mess. I didn’t want to pull someone else into that. I didn’t want to put myself in a situation where I could disappoint. Which I ended up doing anyway, so . . . I see now that that was a shitty plan.”  I frowned. “Why do you think your default would be to disappoint?”  Malakai gave a humorless half smile. “Some things are in the DNA.”  Malakai was focused on the road, jaw tight, loaded from holding on to something. I surprised myself by wanting to help him carry it. If I couldn’t do that then maybe sharing some heavy of my own would keep him company with it.  “You know, the reason I took my sister to the library after school was because my dad would be at the hospital with my mum. We visited on the weekends, but she made my dad promise that he’d keep visits with us sparse. She didn’t want us to see her like that. She got sick just before I started Year 12. She’s okay now but back then it was bad. Really bad.”  I swallowed and looked down at the sleeves of my sweater. This was why I didn’t allow myself to think about it, to talk about it, because the minute I did I was back at the kitchen table, Mum and Dad sitting my little sister and me down and telling us that it was treatable, that it was severe but that she’d fight it: we’d fight it. All we had to do was be strong. So, I was. I pressed everything down so my little sister, Kayefi, would be less scared, so my dad would have one less thing to worry about, so my mum didn’t need anything else to stress over. I would be strong. I would be the strongest, if that was the only thing I could do.  I exhaled deeply. “You know, sometimes I was so scared that I couldn’t even cry. It’s awful. You feel guilty for not being able to cry, but you’re frozen in this . . . fear. You’re suspended in your own sadness.”  “I know what you mean.”  I stared at him in gentle question, but Malakai shook his head. “Go ahead.”  I cleared my throat. “So, when I needed an escape, or when I wanted to make myself cry, I listened to music. I would listen to all this soul and R&B about heartbreak and yearning, and let it pour it out. It helped. It took me places, gave me space to look inside myself. Let me feel, when I was numb inside.”  I was speaking fast in order to avoid focusing on how much I was showing, on what I was showing, on why I was showing, when Aminah was the only person who knew this. Malakai was quiet throughout, his eyes intermittently turning to look at me, flitting between the road and my face.  “I think it’s another version of ‘my place,’ music. I get lost in it, find myself in it. I think that’s why I started Brown Sugar. I guess I wanted to share that place.”  I caught myself. What was it about him that just tugged words out of my mouth? Something in the atmosphere between us dislodged truths from hidden places. I let out a small, nervous, possibly unhinged, laugh. “Ugh. Can we turn the music up? I’m sick of the sound of my voice.”  Malakai glanced at me, his strong features looking so tender in that moment that they hit me in the softest part of my heart. The junction between pleasure and pain.  “Thank you for trusting me with that.”  I hadn’t realized that was what I’d done until he said it. Trust. Was that what I was doing now? Trusting people? How had he made me do that? I wanted to regret it, for that cool feeling to tell me that I’d gone too far, put myself in danger, but the warmth that was beginning to feel like default around him stayed. I liked that he didn’t push, let my feelings sit, waited for me to say or not say. He had a good sense of sensing.  “I’m sorry for what your family went through. I’m really glad your mum’s okay.”  “Thanks. Me, too. It’s weird. After it happened it’s like I forgot how to not repress stuff. I spent so long doing it, it’s kind of like I can’t go back. I get scared that I can’t go back. I mean it’s fine for now, but I want to know that I know how to not repress stuff. I want that option. It freaks me out if I think about it too hard. Like, what if I never know how to do it? What if I’m permanently emotionally fucked?”  I could feel Malakai weighing my words. “I don’t think you’re emotionally fucked. You’re just selective with what you express. Protective. Just means that when you do choose to share stuff it’s special.”  He’d caught me with one hand, quickly, simply. My lips parted to say words that refused to leave my mouth. Malakai, as if understanding my limited capacity for this sort of talk, let the pause stay natural, and continued speaking, as if he’d just made a mere observation, no judgments, no questions.  “I lied to you, by the way.”  The muscles in my stomach constricted. Malakai’s gaze stayed ahead of him, and his face remained still, straight. It was ridiculous. Ridiculous that we’d known each other, what, a week and my body was already wrapping in on itself, guards ready to have their spikes up in self-preservation as if it was possible for him to hurt me. He shouldn’t have been able to. Weird how the tiny defiant bulb of hope made its presence known only when it shattered after plummeting to the bottom of me. It was fine. I barely knew him. This was professional. Friendship had seemed like a possibility and now it wasn’t. It was fine. Wasteman of Whitewell. Nothing to lose.  “About what?” I kept my tone level, void of emotion.  Malakai’s pause hung in the midst of Frank Ocean telling us that a tornado flew across his room. “When I said I only hung out with you to prove a point at FreakyFridayz, I was lying. I said it because I was pissed. You said all this shit about me and I just got in my head. I thought I might as well be that. I thought I was doing something, some sort of double bluff to prove that it didn’t matter what you thought of me, but I just ended up being a dickhead. And a Wasteman. I shouldn’t have said that. Me lying was because, for some reason, I do care what you think of me, on some level.” He rubbed the back of his neck but kept his eyes trained on the road. “I hung out with you that night because I wanted to hang out with you. That’s it. That’s the truth. There was no hidden agenda.”  Malakai was still looking straight ahead at the road, and he was usually so forthright in looking at me—even if only with tiny, discreet glances— that I knew it could only be down to nerves. The guards stood down and a surprising, overwhelming rush of ease and affection ran through me.  “Um, so do people call you Kai? Is that a thing?”  I saw Malakai relax against his seat in relief that I wasn’t going to make him go further. He said what he said. I heard what he said. What more to be said?  Malakai shook his head. “Nah. Not really. You’re the only one that’s ever called me that, actually.”  My cheeks flared. I was glad the last meal I had was perfect because I was about to shed my fucking mortal coil. “Shit. Well, that’s embarrassing. I’ll stop.”  Malakai eyes stayed focused on the road. “Why?” He twitched his shoulder. “Don’t.”  My smile had had enough of being trapped and spilled out, wide and brazen and messy, dripping everywhere. It soaked through my clothes and into my skin.  Chapter 12


The Blackwell Beat with Lala Jacobs  What’s good, my fellow Blackwellians! Welcome to The Blackwell Beat with me, Lala Jacobs, where we give you the tea, Black, no sugar. Blackwell’s resident R&B relationship advisor, Kiki Banjo, was seen getting frisky at FreakyFridayz when she locked lips with the newest player in town, double-chocolate-fudge- mocha Malakai Korede, just a few days after warning girls off him. Now obviously this smelled a little bit suspect, looked like she wanted to save dessert for herself. Had some of us rattled. We’ve been listening to her advice for a year and if we can’t trust her with that, then what else was she lying about? Is she really about it? Well, fear not, people, because I’ve done my digging and word on the tweet is that it was just super unfortunate timing. Apparently Malakai and Kiki squared up to each other shortly after her show aired, him calling her out and her refusing to back down. Sparks flew and enemies became baes. Cute! And I know some of us will be salty about it, but it wasn’t planned and I think we all know Kiki always keeps the girls in mind. I, for one, stan the newest couple in town. I also got some intel from Kiki’s camp that a new series will launch on Brown Sugar, inspired by the new romance. Gotta Hear Both Sides will be four episodes where the campus cuties will give us a He Said She Said on dating. I personally look forward to following their updates on social media, and I’m sure I won’t be the only one preeing. This was The Blackwell Beat with Lala Jacobs. Until next time,  folks.

 I pulled my earphones out of my ears as Lala signed off. So, it was official. It was a few days after the Sweetest Ting nondate and I’d been at the campus coffee shop, Beanz, waiting for my order, when I got a notification for a new upload of The Blackwell Beat, the quick turnover webcast “news channel” for all “melanated members of the student body,” which operated in front of a green screen in communications and politics student LaLa Jacobs’ room. Although she had to play an objective role for her show, she always had our back and always shouted out FreakyFridayz and Brown Sugar, being Aminah’s classmate and one of the few people she actually liked. It wasn’t surprising to me that Aminah had got a press release sorted and managed to give the inside scoop to The TeaHouse’s rival. Aminah was good at what she did. It was a slick move that got the word out and exacted revenge on Simi for trying to mess with us. My phone pinged.  MINAHMONEY: So what you think?  KEEKS: The baddest in the game.

 MINAHMONEY: Nobody in my lane. 💅😊😊 Our followers have tripled! This  week’s show is going to be huge! I heard Simi-the-Snake is seething at the  fact that her attempt to drag has backfired. Do u like my alliteration?  KEEKS: Come thru, Naija Angelou.  MINAHMONEY: Thank you. Thank you. *bows* U at ur afternoon coffee date?  Ur very first one as a couple. Hot. What u wearing?? So pissed I had to  leave for class before I saw.  KEEKS: It’s not a date! We’re not a couple! Stop it!  MINAHMONEY: Yeah, yeah, I know but I saw that pic that someone took of  you guys at dinner the other night and sent to The TeaHouse . . . you guys  looked cozy. You were laughing lots. Also, you got like three #couplegoals in  the comment section. I bet Simi was pissed but there were four other pics of  u guys online so she had to post otherwise she’d look badmind. You guys  are convincing.  KEEKS: We get along fine. I was probably laughing at him anyway. He makes a lot of really bad jokes. To answer your question, I’m wearing a mock- turtleneck black bodysuit, my tan corduroy button down mini, and calf-length boots. It’s not a date.  MINAH: Sexy. That top really accentuate your tits too. 😋  KEEKS: MIMI! It does, doesn’t it?

 I smiled at my phone just as a notification slid down from the top of my screen. Rianne Tucker (GoodGirllRiRi) has followed you on ProntoPic.  My smile swiftly froze and fell, the sight of the name ricocheting through my chest, hurling me to a place I’d thought I’d buried. My throat tightened as I stared at the tiny, circular avatar of the pretty girl with a glossy pout.  “Kiki?”  Malakai’s voice almost made my phone slip from my fingers. I jumped and turned around to see him looking down at me quizzically, and my stomach flipped at the sight of him. It was probably the distress of the moment prior clashing with surprise. Nothing to do with how good he looked in a black T-shirt and black windbreaker, those perfect fitting jeans, and his black Vans. Or his signature scent, clean and woodsy and crisp, mingling with the steamy roasted scent of coffee beans and pastry. Despite this, his presence was a welcome distraction; the frostiness the notification had brought ebbed, the dark feeling pushed back temporarily.  “Kai! Hi!”  Whose voice was that? Since when did my voice get so chirpy? It wasn’t even chirpy after I’d had my morning coffee and now suddenly my voice sounded like I was a Disney Princess?  If he noticed he didn’t let on, and his “Mornin’, Scotch” fell out as easy as his grin. My stomach somersaulted again. I needed something buttery inside me immediately.  “So,” I murmured as we inched forward on the queue. “Did you watch The Blackwell Beat this morning?”  Malakai nodded and smiled. “Yeah. She called me a double-chocolate- fudge mocha. You know, I’m really feeling being considered a hot beverage. I’m thinking of changing my ProntoPic handle to MochaMalakai.”  I rolled my eyes. “You’re a fool.”  “Funny way of saying genius. I just want to make the most of my new social capital. My followers doubled since last week. So has the number of DM slides.”  “Yeah, so have mine.” It was fascinating, as if my new relationship status made me more accessible than I was in my perpetual singledom. My inbox was brimmed full of “Yo, Kiki, what you sayin’?” comments on IG selfies asserting that “I was looking nice, still,” with multiple fire emojis. It was as if attraction to me was validated by another man’s attraction to me. That was going in the show.  Me + Newest Spice on Campus = Doubled social currency and increased perception of availability.  The queue crawled forward; it was peak time, purposely chosen so we had maximum eyes on us. The more exposure the better and in Blackwell, Coffee Shop Official was itself a relationship status. “So, did you reply to any?”  Malakai raised a brow. “DMs? Course not. I have a girlfriend who I’m dedicated to. Yoruba boys don’t cheat.”  I levelled a flat stare at him. He laughed and shook his head. “Kiki, I didn’t respond to any of them. I wouldn’t jeopardize what we’re doing. We’re in a relationship. I’m going to be how I would be in a relationship.” His eyes breezily took me in. “I like your turtleneck by the way. Very Nia Long in Love Jones. I have a mad crush on Nia Long in Love Jones. Actually, I have a mad crush on Nia Long generally. Anyway, I like your turtleneck.”  My entire body flushed.  He stood closer to me, bent low, lips inches away from my ear and whispered, “How am I doing? That’s what boyfriends do right? Compliment? And there are like ten other people from Blackwell right now, so we have witnesses.”  I nodded briskly. “Yeah. Yup. Well done.”  He leaned a little further back from me to assess me, before apparently quickly coming to a judgment of my emotional state and placing two large, warm hands on my shoulders. “Don’t stress.” His thumbs were resting lightly on my clavicles.  “I’m not stressed.”  I was stressed. Stressed about a deeply unwelcome blast from the past that came in the form of a ProntoPic notification; stressed that when Malakai complimented me I liked it—even though I should have known he was acting—and stressed about how convincing we would be as a couple. Faking it sounded doable in theory, but now I realized how much performance it would require. Our initial kiss wasn’t an act, it was very much real, too real, so real that if it crossed my mind, I had to cross my legs, but now everything I did had to be considered, calculated. Now, I was also stressed that Malakai knew when I was stressed. And stressed that his thumbs on my clavicles were conjuring feelings that were far too erotic for ten thirty A.M. He inclined his head, levelled his gaze, squinted. “Yes, you are. That brain of yours is whirring, I can see it on your face. You’re doing your overthinking thing.” “I’m not!” Malakai straightened up and let out a knowing, lopsided smile. “Relax, Scotch. I know this is our first proper time in public, but we’re the only ones who know what we know. We got this.” The “we” whizzed around in my brain like a breeze picking up speed while on speed when a “next” beckoned us forward to the till: it was our turn. I gathered myself and smiled at the barista. “Could I have a skinny latte with one dash of vanilla, one dash of caramel syrup, and, like, a splash of hazelnut, please?” I turned to look up at Malakai, who was already looking at me, the corner of his mouth flicked up. “What you want?” “Do they have Mocha Malakai on the menu?” “You’re so annoying.” “Kai Tea Latte?” I snorted. “Okay, good. See, now you’re relaxed.” I shook my head. “So, you want tap water or . . . ” “An Americano, please.” “Oh. You’re one of those.” “What does that even mean?” “Pretentious.” “How is having regular coffee pretentious? I’m drinking it how it’s supposed to be drunk. Why ruin it? No frills no fuss. It is what it is.” “We get it. You’re a deep filmmaker who doesn’t want to tamper with the purity of coffee by actually enjoying it.” “Oh, because I don’t have dessert for breakfast? Vanilla and caramel? Really? You want a cone with that? That’s not a coffee that’s—” I nodded and turned to the barista. “Hey, Tomi, do you have anything hard enough to knock someone out with? Like a fruit scone or something?”  Tomi—one of the London Gyaldem—smiled knowingly. “You know what? Scones crumble. An apple might work, though?”  “Perfect. I’ll take . . . an almond croissant and an apple. Knocking someone out will make a girl hungry.”  Malakai laughed. “Cute.”  “I am, aren’t I?”  Malakai rolled his smile in his mouth, his eyes dancing. “Let me get this.”  I pushed his hand away, as I tapped mine on the card reader. “You’re getting my waffles next time we go eat.”  Tomi released a little squeal. “You guys are adorable, man. I can’t lie. I thought you were moving a bit mad, Kiki. I mean, no one ever sees you with anyone and all of a sudden you’re with this one? But I can see why this happened. Shanti’s just gonna have take this L.”  It was at that moment that I remembered Tomi was a sweet girl who also just happened to be one of the biggest gossips on campus, a fact that earned her the nickname of Tell-All Tomi. And though Malakai and I had been being normal, normal could be interpreted in any way once people thought you were a couple.  I let out a breezy smile. “There ain’t an L for Shanti to take. Malakai and I just . . . happened. It isn’t a competition. And he definitely isn’t a prize—”  “Hello? I’m right here,” Malakai interjected, and I shrugged.  I took my plate with the croissant and picked an apple from the basket by the till.  “You should be flattered. It means I want you because I want you. Not because I think other people want you.” I tossed Malakai the apple and he caught it in one hand, bit into it, eyes glinting into mine.  Tomi breathed a “hot” and I turned to her with a mock shudder. “Do me a favor and don’t tell anyone I said that, please.”  Tomi laughed. “Who am I gonna tell?”  Right.

Apparently my girl just preed Mocha and Brown Sugar bein all couple goalz in Beanz. They’re official guys. It’s legit. I think I stan, you know. #SugarMocha I read the tweet out loud to Malakai with satisfaction—it was posted approximately eight minutes after Malakai and I had left the queue. While on my phone, I hastily swept the notification from Rianne Tucker away. Out of sight, out of mind.  Malakai put his coffee down and choked out a laugh. “Shit, already?”  I shrugged and put my phone down on the faux-marble table. “The Blackwell Gossip Industrial complex moves fast, and romance is entertainment. I guess it’s anthropologically exciting that me, a weirdo who doesn’t date, and you, a guy who does date—a lot—are now locked into a relationship. It’s almost like it propels us into celebrity status. People forget about the individuals involved and look at the projection of romance instead. Hence the couple name for us.” I paused. “Wow, that was good. Lemme write that down.” I got my notebook from my satchel and scrawled my observations for my application essay until I began to feel the—now customary—weight of Malakai’s eyes on me. I looked up.  “What?”  Malakai shrugged. “Nothing. You’re just . . . a brainiac. Which I knew before, but it’s cool seeing it up close.” He absentmindedly slid the small canister of sugar sachets on the table, and the morning light gleamed off the silver.  We were sat in the corner, by the wide window walls, giving us a view of students rushing to and ambling around on the green space in the leaf- strewn quad. It also meant that I noted the various Blackwellian members slowing down to look at us curiously as they walked past.  “Alright, so”—I brought out my rose-gold-covered tablet from my bag —“I’ve drawn up a schedule. Let me know if you have any questions.”  Malakai brought his bitter bean juice down from his lips. “Oh. You were serious about the schedule thing.”  I raised a brow. “Why would I be joking, Kai? We’re doing this for a purpose. We have to be precise. We don’t have a lot of time. Eight weeks to really juice this relationship thing for the show, make people believe in us and get enough material for your film. Plus, we have our first episode this Thursday.”  Malakai reclined his chair and ran a hand across his face. “You’re really taking the fun out of this, Scotch.”  “Well, this isn’t supposed to be fun. It’s work, my NYU place depends on it.”  “Brown Sugar is work right?”  “Yeah. Kind of. I guess so.”  “Does it feel like work?”  “No.”  Malakai leaned forward, loosely lacing his fingers together on the table. “Right. Because you like what you’re doing.”  I narrowed my eyes as I calculated the Malakai Mathematics in my mind. “So, you’re saying that this can be fun because I like you? Because if you’re saying that, I’m gonna have to call you an arrogant arsehole before telling you to go fuck yourself.”  Malakai smiled and relaxed against his chair. “Because we like each other. Platonically. We’re becoming friends.”  I pulled a face. “Don’t be disgusting.”  The twinkle in his eye stuck its tongue at me. “I’m sorry to break it to you, Scotch. We’re buddies.”  “Don’t say that word around me ever again.”  “Pals.”  “I will pour my coffee all over your crotch.”  “Hmm. Interesting.” Malakai reached over to pick up my notebook and pen, and posed with them as if taking notes. “You do the drink pouring thing a lot. Is it a fetish?”  I kept my face straight. “Don’t kink shame me.”  “Sorry. Also, that is not coffee, it’s a sundae.”  I flipped my middle finger up and Malakai clutched his hands to his chest as if he was overwhelmed with the tenderness of emotion shown toward him.  He grinned at me and passed back my notebook and pen. “Lean into it. Let’s discuss this schedule, friend.”  I sat up and pulled up my calendar, back in the zone. “So, uh, we have to figure out milestones and situations we have to experience as a couple for it to be legit. Social events, dates—”  “Well, we’ve already had our first date.”  “Right, and that already got me more followers, which hopefully will translate to more listeners. We’re setting the foundation. Maybe the first show will be us . . . talking about how the first date establishes the terms of engagement. Or should, anyway. How it helps to undo prejudgments.”  Malakai leaned back in his chair. “And I learned the importance of transparency. From jump.” Which was funny because whenever he looked at me, I felt like I was being seen into.  I looked back at my tablet and scrolled through my calendar. “I’m going to share this with you so we’ll sync. We’ll have little things. The Black Panther screening is in two weeks, which will be cute. We’ll go to every FreakyFridayz together, sporadic lunches and coffees—”  “We got Ty Baptiste’s birthday party too, which will be a good place to cement our status and interview people.”  Ty Baptiste was ostensibly a member of Malakai’s new crew and was one of the most popular guys on campus on the nondickhead side of the social spectrum. He was like Zack’s benevolent tether. His dad was an ex- footballer but he used his wealth to spread enjoyment, like sneak paying for group dinners and using his family’s country house to throw a party for about twenty-five select Blackwell members on his birthday weekend. Aminah was invited last year but skipped when I declined to go as her plus one, ignoring my protestations that she still go when she insisted she’d rather do face masks and binge Real Housewives with me anyway. I wished I could have gone for her, but the idea of it made my palms prickle like they were doing now. Going would entrench me into a social faction and I had no intention of being part of any. When you were part of something like that, the intimacy could easily sour into something that could eat you alive. There was safety on the outside. And now, I had to be inside for this whole thing to work. Ty Baptiste’s party was the most inside you could get.  “He invited me to stay in one of the rooms,” Malakai said casually as he sipped his coffee. While plenty of people booked Travelodges nearby or crashed on any flat surface or sofa, only Ty’s inner circle were allowed to stay in the extra rooms in the six-bed farmhouse. Malakai was inner circle, which meant, as his girl, I was too. And I had to make this thing believable for the show, and the show had to be listened to for my internship. So, I had to go.  Malakai must have noted the stress on my face because he leaned forward, urging me to meet his gaze. “Hey. I’ll obviously sleep on the floor or something.”  I swallowed. “It’s not that. I’m just um . . . “ I inhaled deeply. It was easier if he knew. “I just get a little nervous with intense, close, social situations. I haven’t had the best experience in the past.”  Malakai’s brows gently furrowed. “But FreakyFridayz.”  “Is open and public and I can melt into the background. This is me being part of a group. It’s different.”  Confusion still softened his face, but he nodded. “It could be intense. We can figure out another event to—”  “No. I’ll gear myself up. It’s important that we’re a credible couple and being at a weekend away together at one of your boys’ birthdays helps that.”  “You sure? I’m cool with what you’re cool with.”  I inhaled deeply and shot him a valiantly breezy smile. “I’m sure.”  He threw me a small, lethal slant of his lips before looking down at the calendar on his phone. “Hold up. What’s this?” His brow was raised as he read out, “RomCon . . . The Reign of Ifekonia?”  I groaned inwardly. I’d forgot to delete it from my calendar, and now Malakai was privy to my nerdiest pursuit. I shrugged, schooled myself into nonchalance. “Uh, that’s in there by accident. It’s nothing—”  Malakai’s amusement glinted. “This ain’t nothing, Scotch. You’ve got bare emojis surrounding it. Whatever it is, it’s a big deal.”  This time, I groaned outwardly. “If I tell you, you have to promise not to laugh. For your sake. If you laugh, I will kill you.”  Malakai solemnly crossed his heart.  I sighed. “So ‘RomCon’ stands for Romance Convention. It’s in London. And one of my favorite book series is a romance fantasy called The Reign of Ifekonia. It’s by this amazing Nigerian author called Idan Fadaka. I used to read it in school with my best . . . I used to read it in school. It’s like this Afrofuturistic dystopian saga loosely based on a subverted Yoruba folklore. Game of Thrones–type shit. Except better. It has warrior kings bowing down to warrior Orisha queens during battle, uses mystical politics to explain what’s happening in our daily reality.” I leaned forward. “For instance, in the last book, The Reign of Ifekonia: Search for the Sun, these translucent-skinned aliens invaded the land and acted like they were sent as Guardians from the Great Queen Oludumara in the land of light, when actually they came from the land of night and from the Dark Lord Eshuko and it’s supposed to represent colonialism and . . .” The words got stuck in my throat, my skin warming. Malakai was watching me intently. “I’m stopping now.”  Malakai shook his head, smiling. “Don’t. I like seeing what you look like when you’re into something. Your eyes light up.”  I took a large gulp of my sweet, warm swill, as if it would push back the blood that swooped to my cheeks. “It’s weird you should say that because my favorite character is Shangaya. She’s one of the main characters. She’s this regular girl who works at her dad Ogunyo’s metal shop, making weapons, fixing transporter vehicles. She discovers she has the power to conjure thunder and fire when she’s eighteen. Her eyes become fireballs when she’s angry, twilight stars when she’s happy. She becomes this vigilante warrior queen. She rides a saber-toothed panther called Tutu, because riding her calms her down when she’s worked up—”  “I get it. Itutu. Coolness. Cold.”  I titled my head. “Exactly.” I cleared my throat. “She has a love affair with this Light Guardian, a true Light Guardian sent from Oludumara called Niyo. They’re not supposed to mix. They’re from two different classes and he’s from a sect that fell to the earth ten thousand moons ago . . . anyway. I love the stories, and the author, Idan Fadaka, is coming to RomCon in London for a signing. I was meant to go with Aminah. She’s so cute. She’s not into this kind of stuff but she was willing to dress up as Yoa, Shangaya’s enemy turned best friend, who has mastery over water and winds. But her dad’s coming to town that weekend so she can’t come anymore.”  Malakai sat further up. “First of all, that sounds really, really fucking cool, second of all . . . so?”  I chewed on a torn piece of croissant. “So, what?”  “So, why can’t you go?”  I stared at him. “Malakai. Going to a romance convention is corny enough without going alone. Look, can we just drop it? It doesn’t matter. I returned the tickets, and it’s probably sold out now.” I tinkered on my tablet. “See? Gone from the calendar. Moving on! We break up shortly after the AfroWinter Ball in December and then we’re done. What do you think?”  Malakai nodded in agreement. “The ball’s a great place to get material for my film too.”  “Great!” I snapped the cover of my tablet shut and slipped it into my bag, happy to be moving on from the fact that I enjoyed cosplay and romantic fantasy novels. I couldn’t believe I left that in there.  Malakai lifted his fist over the table. His gaze jumped from my eyes to my hand pointedly. I raised my own fist so it grazed his knuckles in a kiss, a formal establishment of our treaty, our diplomatic framework confirmed. We were officially a team, for better for worse, with mutual goals at stake. Sealed with a spud.  “Shall I walk you to class, bae?” Malakai’s grin was an oblique tease.  I mock shuddered as we got up from the table. “No pet names.”  Malakai threw a look at me from the corner of his eye. “So, no more Scotch?”  I slowed down as I hitched the strap of my bag onto my shoulder. I shrugged and schooled my voice to be casual. “Scotch is different. It’s fine.” I cleared my throat. “I like Scotch.”  Malakai tucked in a smile and crooked his arm to allow mine to link through as we walked out of the coffee shop.  “Me, too.”  Chapter 13


Lysha’s mouth was moving. I was pretty sure it was moving. Okay, yeah, it was moving, but instead of her sharp-tongued quick-paced East London patois I heard The Internet, Syd’s smooth, satin voice pouring out, out of sync with the movements of Lysha’s lips. Then Lysha’s mouth stopped moving abruptly—Syd kept crooning, crystalline. Lysha’s eyes narrowed in focus on me and before I had time to react to what I knew was coming, my girl had leaned forward to abruptly pull Syd’s voice from my ears and me out of my silken cocoon and into the cacophonic din of the sixth form common room. I rolled my eyes and Lysha clapped in front of my ears.  “Yo, Kiki, you listening to me? What you wearing on Saturday? Jason’s eighteenth?”  I blinked. My knees were curled up on the seat beneath me—my usual meditative position. I was zoned out before our last period of the day and we were tucked in our corner of the common room, closest to the double glass fire-escape doors that led out to the field. We had chosen it because it gave us an excellent view of the boys playing football at lunch, without us needing to go outside, a great matinee show from a royal box seat. The Usual Suspects were in their usual positions. Lysha sat on the sofa opposite me flanked by Yinda, who periodically blew pink gummy bubbles that matched the lacquer she was coating her nails with. Her bio textbook was balanced on her knees, doubling as a mat to catch any drips and spills.  To my right, my best friend Rianne Tucker sat on Nile’s lap, Wood Grove High School’s power couple, our king and queen, a decree made by the two tenets of High School Aristocracy: they were both the most good-looking people in our school and both happened to be fair. In those days, that space, the two were interchangeable, synonymous. Coronation by way of caramel skin. They attained the tricky balance of enough detentions to make them edgy without getting excluded. They did alright in school. They weren’t delinquents but were in trouble enough to give them an air of fearless cool. That’s really harder to do than it would seem, in a school with mostly white teachers.  At one point—maybe year 11 or 12—Nile had made moves toward me (comments on my Facebook pictures, a few “You look nice today you know, Keeks”); it was around the same time that boys were starting to get intrigued by my smart tongue, curious as to whether they could be the ones to soften it, if they could make it malleable enough to curve around theirs. But before I could test the curiosity, pick it up, look it over, and think maybe, my mum got sick. I started to turn inward. I skipped out of parties that I used to be the beating heart of (for a while my nickname was Koffee, due to the amount of living room coffee tables that were transformed into podiums when my song came on) and Ri didn’t hesitate to take up the mantle. Rianne was my right hand, my ride or die, my partner in crime, and I was grateful for her and grateful for her taking up space for the both of us. There was less pressure on me to return to the person I was before—which worked out great because I had no idea who that person even was anymore. When my mum got ill I forgot what the point of it all was, and it all seemed so flavorless, so stupid. Rebellion lost its allure, because what was I even rebelling against? It sped up the epiphany that most people have when they’re in their first year of uni—when you’re away from home and you’re no longer living against parents you feel you need to resist in order to find yourself. I had a new respect for my ma, quick-witted, raucous laugh, could haggle light from a star, the seventeen-year-old who came from Nigeria on her own and cleaned toilets to put herself through a polytechnic and then university, before becoming a social worker and constructing a life from dust, work, faith, and hope, and who fell in love with a fellow newly come Nigerian boy who really liked to cook and dreamed of opening a Nigerian restaurant, but who drove taxis because nobody would give him a job. Met at a wedding, introduced by friends. I wanted to be like the woman who put her dust, work, faith, and hope with his and built some kind of life. I wanted to be just like her. And now I was facing losing her. What was I rebelling against? Adolescent risk wasn’t tasty when my whole life felt like it was tipping on the edge.  Which was why I said to Lysha, “I’m not wearing anything to the party on Saturday.”  Nile laughed. “So you’re going naked?”  Rianne squared her elbow in his gut and I rolled my eyes. Since he started dating Rianne, our relationship had mutated into a weird, tentative frenemyship. I thought he wasn’t good enough for my girl and he thought I was stush. He insisted that my mum being sick had nothing to do with my stushness, that I was like that before (although this hadn’t previously stopped him from trying it on with me) and therefore this absolved him of being an insensitive prick who called a girl dealing with a sick parent stush.  I levelled a cool gaze at him. “Yeah, Nile. I’m going naked. Idiot.”  Rianne threw Nile a stern look before turning back to me. “Kiki, you haven’t gone to one party this term, which I get, but it isn’t healthy, man. You need to let loose. Lose control for one night. I can’t go because I’m at a family wedding. Go on my behalf. Please. You even said your mum doesn’t want you seeing her this weekend, after last time.”  Last time in question involved Kayefi bursting into hysterical sobs at the sight of our increasingly frail mother, and me having a panic attack the following Monday on the bus to school.  “I have to look after Kayefi.”  Lysha shrugged. “Look, my little sister is having a sleepover with her mates this weekend for her birthday. I know they go to different schools but your sister gets on with mine. Our parents have met, you used to sleep at mine all the time. I’m sure it’ll be cool. You can get ready with me. You can wear nipple tassles if you really do wanna go naked. Your body, your choice.”  Rianne grinned. “See! Problem solved with Lysha’s ho couture suggestion.”  I laughed and shook my head. “I don’t know you guys. I feel guilty. My dad’s going back and forth from the restaurant and hospital and—”  Yinda blew on her baby pink nails. “You’ve been doing that too, sis. Working at the restaurant, going to the hospital, and looking after your sister. You going to feel guilty for being young? Listen, you been kind of a drag lately, and I get why, but sometimes it’s really like we’re chilling with a ghost or something. It’s creepy—”  Lysha turned to Yinda sharply. “Are you dumb, Yinda?” Yinda’s wide eyes widened further. “Sorry, man, you know what I mean, though, innit.” Rianne rolled her eyes. “What Yinda is trying to say is that we miss you, we miss having a good time with you, and it ain’t been the same without you. Right, Nile?” Rianne’s glossy lips stretched in encouragement at her boyfriend, nodding so her contraband silver hoops jangled. Nile nodded and gently nudged me with his elbow. “Yeah. We all do. Who’s gonna make fun of how I dress? I’ll look after you. Don’t worry.” I shrugged. “I’ll think about it.”  Chapter 14


Whitewell College Radio, 9:30–11:00 P.M. slot, Wednesday Brown Sugar Show: Gotta Hear Both Sides, Episode 2

“Look, I’m just saying that life would just be easier for everyone if people just said what they meant, that’s all! Why would a girl say she’s fine if she’s not fine? And why am I to blame when I take her word for it? How does that make me the villain? Like, the other day we’re in class—”  I rolled my eyes and said dryly into the mic, “He’s been itching to get this story off his chest. Here we go.”  Malakai had switched to my seminar this week due to a medical check- up appointment clash, which actually turned out to be perfect because it further cemented the idea of our inseparability as a couple. So cute that Malakai switched to my class this one time because we were too busy for our weekly lunch date and he missed me. Or so the rumor mill churned out, according to Tyla Williams, who I’d bumped into in the library as I was returning some books. Tyla Williams had never spoken to me before. Tyla Williams, who I saw had once called me a stush bitch who “thinks she’s too nice” on a leaked screenshot eight months ago. But when we met in the library, Tyla commented, “Michael would never do that for me, man. Once I texted him to keep me company while I took my braids out and he said, ‘What for? I ain’t need to see how the sausage is made.’ What does that even mean?”  We ended up going for a coffee. She was nice. Turned out we were both going to Lagos that Christmas. We made plans to link up. Malakai continued, comfortable in front of the desk, elbow resting against it as he leaned closer to the mic. He had taken easily to his new position as temp cohost. He was charming, funny, easy—essentially, himself. Our first show had been an introduction, had been surprisingly fun, and now, in our second, we had found ourselves in a groove.  “So, listen, Kiki puts her hand up to answer a question, and she gets it slightly wrong. The tutor asks her to assess her answer and she pauses. Hesitates. The lecturer doesn’t wait for her to figure it out. She does that sometimes to keep us on our toes. Anyway, said lecturer poses the question to the class. Some dude answers, real condescending with it, you know the kind of shit designed to make Kiki feel like she doesn’t know what she’s doing. The gag is, he actually gets what Kiki got right, wrong. Kiki puts her hand up to answer, and I turn to her like, ‘I got this, boo,’ because I know the answer. So, I put my hand up, as you do.”  I rolled my eyes again. He really was a dramatic storyteller.  Malakai shrugged at the mic. “I say I agree with her point but she got it slightly wrong on these issues—I break them down. Now, bear in mind that I’m sitting right next to her. Mate, the second the words leave my mouth I feel the temperature drop. I’m telling you, that lecture hall was Antarctica. I shivered. Man’s teeth started chattering.”  I heard Aminah snort from where she was sat on the sofa and I scoffed. “Alright. You know what? The Academy Award for Doing the Most goes to —”  “You, Kiki. Because the way you looked at me—I felt shook to my soul. If I now die of hypothermia, what will you say at my funeral?” His voice had taken on an avuncular Nigerian jaunt to accentuate his theatrics.  I smirked. “You had a good run. God bless your soul. Thank you for leaving me your gray hoodie.”  “Wow. You see? Ice queen.”  “Your hoodie will warm me up.”  “Okay. Great. So, after lectures we’re having lunch and I ask her if she’s pissed off at me. My girl says no, she’s fine, she’s cool, asks me to pass the salt. As if she needed any, when she was clearly salty enough.”  I held on to my headphones and cackled. “Wow.”  “Then I say, ‘Look, have I done anything wrong?’ Then what do you say, Kiki?”  He passed me the small bottle of Hennessey and I took a swig, and replied, through a laugh, “‘Do you think you’ve done anything wrong?’”  Malakai let out a long, exaggerated exhale. “I say, ‘I don’t know, Scotch. That’s why I’m asking you.’ Then she goes, ‘Well, if you don’t think you’ve done anything wrong then you haven’t done anything wrong, innit.’”  “My voice isn’t that high—why are you making me sound like road Minnie Mouse?”  “Stay with me now,” he directed his audience, ignoring me. “Two days after this happens, we’re studying together and I’m stuck on a question for a tutorial. The question is under her specialist subject. I ask her for help, and you know what she says? You know what my darling girlfriend says to me? She says . . .” He paused for effect, cleared his throat. “‘Nah, you don’t need my help. You got this. Like you had it the other day.’”  Aminah cackled. I heard her say, “My girl!” She had brought some popcorn and was watching the show with delight. She was crunching very loudly.  Malakai shook his head at me, slow and heavy. “Brutal. Tell me where in that story am I the bad guy? Please. My question is, why couldn’t you have told me you were pissed at me and why you were pissed at me? The drama was unnecessary. I’m baffed.”  I leaned into the mic and arched a brow at him. “You done, babes?”  Malakai released a tiny smile. “No. You also look really sexy when you’re angry and that kind of made it more confusing.”  I knew it was for the show—it had to be for the show—but that didn’t stop my belly from turning upside down.  “Ladies,” I said, pointedly ignoring the way he was grinning at me, goading me. I flipped him the finger and he released a soft chuckle. “You see how they try to distract you? Stay woke. Don’t let them catch you slipping. Let me break down why almost everything that Malakai said was —Minah-Money am I allowed to say it? . . . What was that? . . . Great.  “Okay, so what Malakai just said was bullshit. Really ripe bullshit, from a specific kind of bull: real obstinate, meat too tough. This kind of bullshit is used for the manure that fertilizes the farm used to grow male delusion. Makes it grow big and strong. I read that in NatGeo. True story. Mandem, listen to me. Women don’t want to have to tell you how you fucked up. They want to give you time to figure out how you fucked up. Or admit that you fucked up—sorry, Minah, messed up—because most times, let’s be honest, deep down you know.  “We’re gracious angels, benevolent queens. If you just acknowledged the harm done wrong by yourselves, it would piss us off less. So, we lead you to it, help you out without telling you—because it’s not like we like being angry—yet still, you miss road. Willfully. Like, you’d rather believe we’re acting crazy than entertain the idea that maybe you acted up. I mean, you heard that story from Malakai’s own mouth. I let him tell it to you, without interrupting—”  “I’m sorry what? That was you not interrupting? You were like Kanye on a live broadcast—”  “—even though it is my show, and I would have every right to, I let you hear it from the horse’s mouth so there would be no doubt. He knew the second that he had undermined me in front of the entire class that I was pissed. I knew the answer in that lecture. I was going to get to it eventually. I wanted a chance to defend myself. Even if I didn’t, what I didn’t need was for my boyfriend”—it tasted heavy on my tongue, not bad, but it made its presence felt—“to basically announce to the whole class that he thought he was more capable than me. I didn’t need him to swoop in like that. It was embarrassing. He wanted to look like a big man.”  “No, I didn’t.” Malakai shook his head emphatically. Like the audience could see.  I cackled again. “Are you kidding? Yes, you did, Kai. You loved it. You loved knowing something that I didn’t. I saw it on your face! You were smug.”  Malakai scratched the back of his head, then nodded sheepishly. “Alright, fine. I’ll allow it. Maybe I did want to look like a big man. But it wasn’t to embarrass you.”  I reclined in my seat like a glam crime boss. “Then I’m fascinated to know why.”  “I wanted to impress you.”  I sat up, forgetting we were on air, my elevated radio voice sinking back into my regular voice, becoming one. “What?”  Malakai looked slightly uncomfortable and released a small groan. “I can’t believe I’m about to say this on radio. Kiki, everyone knows you’re smart. I wanted to look smart in front of you. I knew you’d have that loser by the ropes if you got the chance, but I wanted you to see that I could take him too.”  “Oh.” I sat back in my chair.  I heard a pointed cough behind from Aminah, reminding me with a jolt that I was still on air and was therefore prohibited from melting into a puddle of Henny and Fenty.  “Oh. Well, uh. I guess I could have been clearer. With communicating my feelings, I mean. Maybe I could have told you what bothered me earlier, and then I would have known that. Not made presumptions.”  “True, but after that whole thing in the seminar I wanted to believe things were cool even when I knew things weren’t cool. I knew you were upset with me, but I guess it was easier for me to believe you were being—”  “A cold witch.”  Malakai laughed. “Easier for me to believe you were being unreasonable than actually face up to the”—he gestured between us messily—“emotional shit.”  “Well, I think it was easier for me to be angry than to admit that my feelings were hurt. So, I guess we’re both bad at the emotional shit.”  We exchanged a soft truce with smiles. “Actually, emotional shit nicely brings me to another thing I wanted to say—if you don’t mind.”  I shook my head, curious, not just as to what he was going to say, but about this new, fresh flavor of Kai I was being treated to—sweeter, deeper. “Go ahead.”  Malakai sat up, his expression melting into something more sober. “Uh, so . . . it’s no secret that I’m known around campus for . . . dating a lot. And while there’s nothing inherently wrong with that, it’s been brought to my attention”—he avoided my gob-smacked gawp—“that I haven’t been completely genuine while doing it. I mean, I thought I was . . . I wanted to believe I was. I didn’t want to deep the fact that maybe I wasn’t being clear, that I was being a dick.  “Look.” He leaned into the mic. “All the girls I’ve spent time with are amazing and I didn’t treat their attention properly. I didn’t treat them like I should have done. I should have made it clear that I wasn’t ready for anything serious, but I didn’t because . . . it sounds shit, man, but I think I liked the attention. And I thought I was being decent for not being explicit, you know? So . . . yeah, I’m sorry. Really sorry for taking you guys for granted. You don’t have to accept it, but it’s important for me to say it.” He darted an unarmed look back at me. “Okay. So that’s me. Sorry. Just wanted to get that off my chest.”  My breath slowly eked out of me. “Uh. Um, okay. Woah. I did not expect that.”  Judging by the wild, wide-eyed look on Malakai’s face, neither did he.  I leaned back to the mic, words eventually making their way to my mouth. “Uh, well, I guess to cap off this momentous occasion we’ll play one of the greatest R&B ballads ever created. About a, um, complicated man who made mistakes he simply wants to make right. It’s about pleading to the woman in your life for forgiveness, for grace. Hold tight for ‘Confessions’ by Usher.”  Malakai snorted and shook his head, immediately looking more relaxed, his eyes softer. I laughed into the mic. “Enjoy, friends, and thank you for spending time with us this evening. This was Gotta Hear Both Sides for Brown Sugar, and I hope everyone got something out of this. I definitely did. I’m K.”  “And I’m Kai.”  “And until next time lovers, stay sweet.” Chapter 15


My phone was ringing. That was weird. I didn’t even know my phone could ring. I mean, I figured that was part of its functionality in general, and I knew that it rang on Sunday afternoons, which was when my parents liked to check in—after church, before lunch—but outside of those times? Eerie. My little sister preferred texting memes as her primary form of communication.  I was in my room typing up notes at my desk, dim light on, listening to music. It was Thursday, and the corner of my computer screen flashed 10:30 p.m. at me. Definitely not my parents. My dad worked late at the restaurant and my mum went to sleep at ten sharp, rock star that she was. I stuck my hand under my open U.S. Foreign Policy textbook and pulled the phone out from under the avalanche of notes to see Kai’s name and picture flashing at me. Something warm and effervescent rose up in my chest.  It was the day after our second show together. It had been a hit. Aminah was over the moon. Overnight our followers had tripled, and so had our number of listeners. People stopped Malakai and I when we were out on campus, telling us how much they loved it. Even before the show, people were on our social media pages with love-eye emojis under every silly- faced selfie we posted, apparently enamored by the dumb candid videos Malakai filmed and uploaded of me. (Me ordering coffee and him roasting me; us together at Sweetest Ting having a rap debate—according to Meji, Sweetest Ting had also seen a considerable boost in customers since we started tagging our location in our pictures.) Sometimes Malakai filmed our casual conversations or us hanging out on his actual camera, as a just-in- case roll for the film.  Malakai and I had seen each other almost every day in the three weeks since we started the project. We sat together in class, got breakfast almost every morning, and texted throughout our days, but this was the first time Malakai had actually called. I turned the R&B down, slid my thumb across the screen, and put him on speaker phone.  “Kai.”  His voice shot out breathless, something wild. “Alright, who the hell is this Sanasi wave-shifter guy? Is he a darkness agent in disguise? He’s too handsome; I don’t trust him. I mean Niyo is handsome too. ‘Skin like the sun was born at the depth of the ocean, dark and bright and fathomless.’ Jeez. Sanasi’s eyes are described like ice daggers and that can’t mean anything good. Why is he trying to seduce Shangaya while my man Niyo is out risking his life and salvation in a cursed galactic forest, searching for a key so they can live their love in peace? Why is Shangaya flirting back with Sanasi and letting him into the Red Earth courtyard? Sanasi is clearly a Wasteman.”  I blinked as his words configured themselves in my mind. They made sense to me on their own, but they didn’t make sense coming out of his mouth. Was he really quoting a line from my favorite book back to me?  I scratched my forehead and without thinking, explained, “Shangaya thinks Niyo abandoned her for the glory of joining the Winged Forces and she is feeling heartbroken, and when she’s heartbroken she uses anger and vengeance to help heal herself. And I can’t say anything else otherwise I’m gonna spoil— Wait, what is happening?! All this stuff occurs in the second book. How are you on the second book of The Reign of Ifekonia?! When did you even start reading the first book of The Reign of Ifekonia?!”  “I’m hooked, Scotch. This shit is amazing. Why don’t more people know about this?”  “Afrofuturistic fantasy novels? I’m thinking just your run of the mill institutional racism in the publishing industry. But . . . you’re reading it, Malakai?”  “I know. I was shocked that I’m literate too. Yeah, started reading the books so I could see why you liked them so much. I get it now.”  I gripped the phone tighter, my breath hitching in my throat. “What?” My skin was prickling. I folded myself up on my computer chair, tucking my knees up beneath me.  Malakai continued breezily, casually, “They’re great. Ten out of ten. They slap. The love story between Shangaya and Niyo. . . . It’s weird. I’m invested, like proper invested. Also, now I get that playlist you made called Shaniyo.”  I’d forgotten that a week before, Malakai had followed me on the streaming platform where I made silly playlists called things like “Beats to Beat Your Face To” (Malakai had sent me a video of himself listening to it with a wave brush poised in front of his cheek like he was using it as blusher, cheeks sucked in, durag placed on his head like a wig), and “Hip- Hop to Pop Your Ass To” (he sent me a screenshot of a Google Search for “How to Twerk”). I really didn’t think he would stumble across my fantasy novel soundtrack, though.  I groaned. “Cringe.”  “Are you kidding me, Scotch? It’s so good. Listening to it, it’s like you’re right there. You are so fucking talented.”  His voice was full of energy, and it poured over me and relaxed every muscle in me that I hadn’t known was tense. I hadn’t fully realized the potency of his voice until it was isolated from his body, and it was scary that whatever irresistible energy Malakai generated was so powerful that it didn’t need his impressive face for it to transfer to me.  Malakai continued, voice buoyant, “Nah, Scotch I don’t think you get it. I mean, obviously you do, but this is sick. That bit at their secret commitment ceremony? Jeez! Where Niyo gives her a thousand jars of honey and a thousand jars of spice as dowry. Uses his fallen wings to carry them and lay them at her feet, saying that he lost his ability to give her moons, but even if he could, what was a moon in comparison to the light of their love? This was all he could give her, the purest things on earth, most overlooked but with the most value. . . . Nah, it was nuts. My head was spinning. Bars, man. If I had Niyo’s game. . . . Wait. Let me even look it up.”  I heard some page flicking in the background, which bought me time as I tried to process what was happening, if this was really happening—and then his voice returned. “‘Moon spice representing their ferocious passion, a terracotta hue bright enough to favor his love’s eyes. Honey for their friendship, the sweetness of two spirits twined, the comfort of their knowledge of each other, happiness. The two balanced each other. Shangaya wept for Niyo’s broken wing, at what he’d sacrificed for her, and he said, “You are my flight. I can see my whole universe in your eyes.”’” Malakai skipped forward. “Then the ceremony . . . ‘Shangaya dipped her finger in a jar of honey, and then a jar of spice, and gently smeared it on Niyo’s lips. “Hold them both on your tongue, my sweet Starbird, and kiss me so I can taste how my forever tastes.”’”  Malakai let out a low, heavy whistle. “Shit. It even got me, and I’m not usually into this stuff.”  All I could manage was breathing.  “Scotch? You there?”  I cleared my throat. “Yeah, I just . . . I’m glad you like the books.”  “They’re dope. Thanks for introducing them to me. Anyway, I’m going to leave you to get back to your work.”  “How do you know I’m working?”  “You’re a nerd. Also, you didn’t go to the library this afternoon because we went to go get lunch and you have that tutorial tomorrow.”  “Are you a stalker?”  “You do know I am basically obliged to spend time with you, right? I mean, I probably would want to spend time with you even if I didn’t have to . . . to study why someone of high intellect would choose such a nasty beverage to drink in the morning.”  I grinned. “Oh, so you are obsessed with me.” I leaned back in my chair. “How embarrassing for you.”  “I’m sorry, who asked who to kiss them?”  “Well, if you’re a stalker, which you obviously are—”  “So, we’re just gonna ignore that fact? Calm. Cool. Okay.”  “Just know that last summer, Aminah and I took two MMA classes that incorporated Beyoncé dance moves into the actions.”  Malakai released an incredulous laugh. “What was it called?”  “Get Em Bodied. The tag line was ‘Slay While Slaying,’ although there was a disclaimer about how they didn’t actually advocate for homicide.”  Malakai chuckled harder. “Oh, my days. That’s the sickest thing I’ve ever heard. Why did you stop after two classes?”  “It was technically illegal so it got shut down. It was in a warehouse in Peckham. Anyway, my point is, I could incapacitate you via an elbow to the neck with a move from the ‘Déjà Vu’ video. I’ll have you on your knees from a move from ‘Power.’”  Malakai’s laughter crackled in my ear like a new fire. “If I said that I find that hot would I be breaking the rules?”  The air in my throat curved in on itself. “Not sure we covered nonpublic compliments, but I think it’s allowed.”  “I don’t think you’d need to work that hard to get me on my knees, though. Realistically.”  The casual way he said it bucked against the dive of his timbre. The impact made my pulse reverberate. In the quiet, I moved to lie flat on my bed. “You really trying to do your sweetboy ting on me? Boy, move.”  He chuckled. “Nah, but for real, Scotch. The more I get to know you the more I realize how much of you there is. I wanna know it all.”  I was quiet for a little while before flipping onto my front. I stared at the picture saved by his name, one I took of him as he took a picture of a basketball game in Eastside. His eyes narrowed in concentration, but expression soft, open. He didn’t know I’d taken it.  “You know more than a lot of people.” That soft listening space that he always left when we spoke, like no word he said would work the way it’s supposed to without my response. I swallowed. “Or maybe it’s just that I’ve had to let you know more, for this whole thing to work.”  “I know enough about you to know that you don’t do what you don’t want to do.”  My breath inched through my throat. “True.”  Malakai’s voice burred low. “So . . . that would mean that you want to let me in.”  A path of lava pulsed through me. “Also true.”  The pause from Malakai was oblique, precarious. When he spoke, his voice was grainy with the texture of an emotion I couldn’t make out. “Thank you for having me.” It was unexpected, and I was grateful for my prone position because my joints suddenly felt gelatinous. And then the memory of our first kiss came to me unbidden, his hands on my waist, his breath against my neck. How easy it’d felt.  The quiet stretched taut between us, and though I couldn’t see him, I imagined him as still as I was, wary of movement, unsure of where to go— perhaps unsure of where we even were.  “You in bed?” I asked finally.  Surprise jounced through Malakai’s voice. “Yeah. You?”  “Am now.”  “Why you wanna know, Scotch?”  I propped my elbow on my pillow to angle my head on my palm, causing my playful, shy smile to tilt. “Oh, I just thought that I should probably do due diligence by learning what my man wears to bed. You know, in case it comes up in conversation with any girls.”  Malakai released a low, delightful rumble. “Kikiola Banjo. I’m scandalized. You’re kinda filthy ain’t you? I like it. . . . You could always make something up.”  “And get it wrong? You, my friend, were kind of a slag. Imagine my shame if I say you wear boxer briefs and I get corrected by one of your ex- tings who says, ‘Actually, Malakai Korede sleeps in a onesie’?”  “And in this fantasy, I would change into the onesie after sex?”  “You like to be comfy.”  “Compelling argument.” A pause. “Shirtless. Boxers.”  I imagined the taut muscle of his chest, the smooth, moisturized skin, a sweet plane for my tongue to glide on. My core constricted. I calmly noted that I had a raging thirst-on for Malakai Korede.  “Good to know. Thank you. Good night.”  “Wait, what? Nah, nah, nah. No fair. This is a partnership, remember?”  I grinned. “I’m a warm sleeper, so . . .” I let my voice dip. “I keep it light.”  “Oh. Okay. I see you want me to lose my mind tonight. How light?”  The delectable frustration in his voice wound me tighter, and I was just about to answer when he made an irritated grunt and swore under his breath, cutting the tension and sending me into a cold freefall. “Shit. I gotta go, Scotch. My dad is calling me and it’s better to pick up than get the stress of missing it later.”  “Hey, it’s okay. Speak to you tomorrow?”  Malakai exhaled deeply. “Yes. Put the books away soon. Watch Netflix. Night, Scotch.”  “Night, Kai.”  I hung up, vibrating, unsure of what passed between us but sure that I liked it. I wanted to curl in on myself as if to trap the clement heat in, but I also wanted to stretch, as if I’d just taken a deep, satisfying nap, let the energy from the good resting spread me straight, pull me taller. I was smiling. My phone buzzed—a notification pushed away the rosy warmth that filled me, dropping down from my screen almost gleefully. Rianne Tucker has tagged you in a photo.  My heart moved to my mouth as I clicked, breath hitched. #ThrowbackThursday. A picture of both of us in year 10, hair slicked back into side buns, held by silver-toned snap barrettes that were there to control what Eco Styler couldn’t, 99-p hair-shop lip gloss slathered on as we pouted into the camera, arms slung around ourselves, holding each other tight.  Bedazzled on the throwback photo, pink and glitzy, were the words: BFFs 4 Lyfe. Chapter 16


The Usual Suspects had been successful in their campaign to get me out. Or at least, they’d felt successful in their campaign to get me out. The truth was I’d been all or nothing, and when I decided I wasn’t nothing I was determined to be all: wearing a push-up bra under my strappy top, whining on Lysha and Yinda, and then becoming the protein in a whine sandwich while Mavado told us that we were so special, so special so special, so special. And I felt special, braids swinging, vodka pouring. Koffee was back, on the tables, the heartbeat of the party racing to forget—doing the most to forget—the fragility of everything, especially the person who usually wore the gold-star pendant around my neck.  Clear hair-shop lip-gloss had been slicked on, a touch of mascara and my mum’s too-light-for-me powder pressed haphazardly on my face. I’d gone into my parents’ room to retrieve it. Her vanity was a little dusty. I ran my fingers across her perfumes, her creams. I sniffed them, remembering the time her neck didn’t smell like clinical sterility, of sweat and hot tears that fell from my eyes on to the hollows of her collarbone. Her neck had always been elegant, her body soft and curvy, but there had always been a stately dip in the connect between her throat and chest, queenly, an elegant deck for a gold star pendant. Now, it was emaciated with tubes coming out of it. I tried to move as much as I could, as if every hip swish and waist twist was a prayer of vitality, as if the more alive I forced myself to be, the more alive she would be. I found that alcohol lubricated my body and made this easier, made the hard edges in my mind soft, the bristles buck.  While I was stood breathless against a wall, taking a break, dizzy head spinning delightfully, Nile came over and took my hand. “Come on. I promised I’d look after you.”  I smiled woozily and followed him to the kitchen, where he refilled my cup. I leaned back against a counter as people squeezed past, to and from the fridge.  “Yeah? Looking after me means giving me more drink?”  Nile shrugged as he passed me the cup. “It’s good to see you have fun, K. Relaxed, like this. Felt like I lost you for a while.”  I held still, the cup hovering by my mouth. An alcoholic heat rush and hormonal heat rush combined to make me feel like I was aflame. I swayed and held tighter on to the counter. The room was pleasantly soupy.  “Bro. Bruh. Did you ever even have me to lose me?”  Nile let out a slow, sexy smile. “I nearly did. Year 11. You were crushing on me like brazy.”  I rolled my eyes. “Brazy? Why do you talk like that? Such a beg. You’re corny! And it’s exactly for that reason that it was the other way round.”  “Just admit that you wanted me.”  “You wish.”  Nile’s smile faded slightly, eyes giving off a metal-edged glint as he gazed lazily at me. There were a few other people in the kitchen, but they were busy, not paying attention, music too loud to focus. Nile glanced around quickly, then stepped closer to me, whispered in my ear.  “Yeah? What if I do?”  I opened and shut my mouth, my heart pounding against my chest, his heavy, masculine heat and Christmas-present-first-grown cologne new to me, this whole thing new to me. My mum getting sick had suspended milestones for me and, as mouthy as I was, my mouth was yet to make contact with a boy’s. This was wrong, I knew it. He was Rianne’s man, but everything, everything in my body wanted to be against his body, in pursuit of forgetting, in losing myself in the heat.  “Don’t say that, Nile. You shouldn’t be saying that.” I pushed him off slightly.  Nile stepped back but his eyes remained fastened to me. “Let’s talk. Somewhere private.”  “Nile—”  “Just talk. Come on, K. We used to talk.”  So, with Nile propping up my stumbles, I swayed to an upstairs bedroom that smelled foreign, something I would later recognize as boy. We were sat on the bed and Nile seemed unable to tell me how much he missed me without rubbing the small of my back and it felt good, so good, and it was like he couldn’t tell me how sorry he was for what I was going through without pushing my braids behind my neck and whispering it against my throat, and it felt delicious, so delicious. Lips moving until they were so close to my skin that he was enunciating against it. He told me through low growls how much I deserved to feel good for once, because I’d been going through it, and when he said it, it felt like the truth, it felt right, even though something felt wrong.  He said he was sorry Rianne had been distant with me lately and he attempted to make up for the distance by proxy with his hand slipping ever so slightly up my top to rub against my waist, slowly and then quickly. He said, between too-hot neck kisses, as he began to push me down on the bed, body on mine, that she was jealous, because she knew he’d liked me first and she couldn’t handle it.  At the mention of Rianne’s name, I’d frozen; it pulled me back to dispassionate reality, yanked me out of the fantasy of forgetting.  “No. Nah, nah, Nile.”  I pushed him off. My hand was waving sloppily, reflexes weakened by cheap vodka. “We need to stop. We aren’t doing this. I’m not doing this. She’s my mate. That’s my girl.”  Nile’s molten eyes hardened to a blade, his smile stiffening, mask slipping. “But is she yours? You should hear the shit she says about you. Like how she thinks it’s mad that someone as blick as you could ever think you had a chance with me.”  My vision was blurry and I couldn’t tell if it was the alcohol or the tears, or if maybe at this point my tears were pure ethanol, stinging their way out of my clumsily lined eyes.  “Shut up. You’re lying. . . . Stop chatting shit.”  “I’m the only one not lying to you, babe. You think Lysha and Yinda ain’t in on it? They talk behind your back, K. I’m the only one that’s real with you.”  I was at the edge of the bed panting, everything I had tried to forget rushing to the fore, my mum being sick now mingling with being called blick, like being dark-skinned was as pathological as what was happening to my mum’s cells, but even worse, a scourge, somehow, a sin. A sickness and a sin.  Nile posed himself as cure and absolution. He was kissing my neck again, and I turned my face so he could kiss the feeling out of me because I was feeling too much, and it didn’t feel like a first kiss, no fireworks, not a candle lit, rather it was like a tourniquet around a wound to staunch the flow of blood.  It wasn’t enough. Even as his hands slipped up my bra and squeezed and I let him, hoping he would squeeze all the feeling out, it wasn’t enough. It was wrong, so wrong. This experience wasn’t mine. It was his. He wasn’t mine, he was Rianne’s. None of what was happening belonged to me. I wasn’t in control. I pushed him off, for good this time, sloppily but stronger now, because even though his tongue hadn’t lapped up feeling, it had soaked up some of the alcohol and sobered me.  He was saying something about me not telling anyone, but I barely heard him and ran out of the room, out of the house, past Lysha and Yinda, all the way back to my home.  I’d texted Rianne the next day.  KEEKS: I’m sorry, so sorry. Something happened. I don’t know how to say this. Can I see you? I was drunk and confused. He said things. I shouldn’t have done it. He said you said—no excuse—but did you say? Did you say that?

 It was too late. News travels fast when everyone in your community is in possession of a small rectangular computer that fits in your back pocket. Nile got ahead of the narrative quickly. I got upset about my mum so he took me upstairs to get away from it all, he said. Brother type, no motives. I was drunk, sloppy, messy. I’d tried it on with him. I’d got upset when he rejected me—like, come on, did I expect that he’d be into me when he had Rianne. “LOL.”  Nile had got to Rianne before I did, that night apparently. He knew I would tell her. Rianne called me words I’d only just got the confidence to think, via text. I felt like I deserved them. Red hot rage in text bubbles and then an immediate wall of ice—I’d been blocked.  The school had given me a home-schooling option for that half of the term because of my mum. I’d never taken them up on it before because I felt like I needed the normality of school. Laughable. I stopped going to school. My grades were good enough, and we were at the stage of the term where everything was essentially exam prep. Aside from exams, I didn’t have to see anyone. Allegiances had been quickly drawn: Yinda defaulted to Rianne, understandably. Lysha too, on the surface, but she texted me a couple of times after a few weeks of radio silence.  LYSHA: Gotta be honest, K, this is dark shit. I know you’re going through  some shit but this is dark shit. I’m talking iron tablet, dark shit bruv. But it  don’t sound like you. I’m worried. I shouldn’t do this but you know I’m here.  Yeah? I know you’re not ok. Also, Nile is a prick. I don’t trust a word he says.  Call me.

 I never called her. What was the point? People believed what they wanted to believe. I was going to leave soon, leave school behind, my mess behind. I could start somewhere else all over again and situate myself outside, never get entangled. I could keep people safe from my chaos and keep myself safe from chaos. You couldn’t be caught out if you kept yourself out.  Chapter 17


“Screw her. What the hell does she want?”  “I don’t know,” I said, panting.  “Why would she show up in your life after all this time?”  “I don’t know.”  Aminah and I were doing our seven P.M. Sweat Out—power walking around the quad—a habit we started since we realized we were too lazy for the gym and we hated running. We looked like two aunties trying to snap back after a divorce, but it was effective, plus we got to wear cute work-out leggings and crop tops. We did it three times a week and since we were often busy during the day, this was our time to debrief and catch up. It was pleasant, with the air newly turning crisp, and for some reason we found the deepening dusk therapeutic for our talks. I’d hoped that sweating would somehow help me release some of the tight stress that had been bound up in my chest ever since Rianne sent that friend request. The tagging only exacerbated it. I really didn’t know what she wanted, but the one thing I knew was that it wasn’t because she was ready to forgive me, which was why I found her contact so disturbing. It was like she was trying to taunt me. It got under my skin, made me itch at a place I couldn’t get at.  Aminah was shaking her head, furious. “From what you’ve told me, that girl is bad vibes, Kiki.”  I swallowed. I’d scrolled through her ProntoPic profile, and her limited pictures were undergrad standard; bright and blurry club photos with her friends, some selfies—she was still so pretty—birthday dedication posts. No pictures of boyfriends, though. There was a picture with Yinda and Lysha, however, captioned “Day Ones.” My chest had pinched at it. Not necessarily because I missed them, but because I’d missed the chance to miss them.  “I don’t know.”  Aminah stopped power walking and yanked me back, gripping my arm. “I do know, Kiki. And whatever fucked-up mind game she’s trying to play will not work. You made the right decision in ignoring the request. Don’t mind her. You have other, more important things going on in your life, like the fact that you’re going to New York next year. Which you deserve because you missed out on that internship year before uni.”  I shook my head and started walking again, soothed a little by Aminah’s pep talk, but not completely. The fact that Aminah knew everything about me was helpful, but it also meant that she could bring up things I’d rather not bring up, such as the year before we met. “First of all, we don’t know if I will for sure. Second of all, not doing the internship in New York was on me.”  Aminah eyed me carefully before changing the subject. “Fine. You know what we haven’t discussed? How Malakai confessed to being a dick on campus-wide radio. That’s a wild move to make if he’s going to return to the singles market after your project.”  “What do you mean if? He is. Also, it could easily just be a tactic to endear the women of Blackwell to him.”  The words were uneasy in my mouth, didn’t fit right on the Malakai I was getting to know. He was genuine.  I shrugged. “Either way, vulnerability is sexy. Plenty of women are still going to be attracted to him.”  Aminah rolled her eyes (lined—she said just because we’re working out doesn’t mean we should look like it). “Girl, do you really think he was thinking about that? He sounded like he wanted the ground to swallow him up when he was confessing. You got a Yoruba man from south London to swallow his pride. Do you know what a feat that is? That was real.”  I tucked my smile back in and tried to suppress the warmth that washed over me. Aminah’s eyes immediately widened in scandalized delight. “Your face—what is that? I have never seen that before in my life. You’re coy. Are you coy?” She lifted her arms with triumph into the sky. “Ki-coy Banjo, wow, I love it—”  I looked around at the sparse courtyard and pulled her arms down. “Could you chill a little please? Malakai and I have found a good rhythm now. I was skeptical but we’re actually friends.” I thought back to our last phone call . . . flirtatious friends, maybe, but still friends. “That’s it.”  Aminah made a choke of amused disbelief as she hitched her thighs up higher on her march. “Oh, okay. Sure. That’s what it—” Her phone chirruped, saving me from what I knew would be an inaccurate speech about how I was in denial. She sighed and zipped her gray hoodie down, pulling out her phone from her purple crop top. Her brows shot up as she read the message. “Kofi’s texting me about what color I’m wearing to the AfroWinter Ball.”  I grinned as I hiked up my arms and legs. “Oh, he wants to match. That’s adorable.”  The Blackwell Society had a booking for the ballroom at the fanciest hotel just outside town, known for teachers’ conferences, team-building seminars, and Blackwell’s answer to the Met Gala.  Aminah rolled her eyes but she failed to hide her delighted grin. “Whatever. He still hasn’t formally asked so I hope he doesn’t think this counts. Apparently because Malakai’s agreed to film some of the night and Kofi’s DJing they get rooms as part of their payment and Kofi wants to give us one. Cinna said we can drive up together. What do you say?”  I shrugged, evading the fact that Malakai and I would be staying overnight in the same building for a second time. “Sounds good.”  Aminah stuck her phone back into her crop top and zipped up her hoodie. “Wow. Never thought I’d see the day where you actually attend social events with me. I mean first, I’m gonna get to go to Ty Baptiste’s party and now the ball with my bestie? If I knew all it took was you being in a fake relationship . . .” Her smile was stiffening.  I tilted my head. “Hey . . . Minah, I never told you to miss Ty’s party, and you know this is just for the sh—”  “Show. Yeah, I know.” Her smile brightened, shining over any tiny pinpricks of unease. “Look, either way I’m glad you’re letting yourself have fun with a boy. And I don’t think Zack counts. I feel like Zack was just kind of, like, a sentient dildo. A barely sentient dildo. That you didn’t even bang. So maybe a barely sentient titty squeezer. Dry hump utility equipment—”  “Alright, well, I ain’t going be having that kind of fun with Kai, so—”  “Yeah, I was going to ask about that actually . . . Kai?”  I took a deep whiff of the cool damp of the air, and let the breeze hit the skin exposed by my black tank top. Power walking really took it out of me it seemed, so my hoodie was tied around my waist. “Don’t you feel invigorated by the smell of the outdoors?”  Aminah narrowed her eyes at me as we made the turning that marked our third way around the leafy courtyard. “First of all, that’s weed, sweetie. Secondly, don’t change the subject. You’ve nicknamed each other?”  I looked across the shadows of the courtyard and squinted in the dark amber dim upon seeing two familiar figures. “Is that Shanti and Chioma coming from the library? Are they friends now?”  “Kikiola Banjo.”  I sighed. She had full-named me, which meant there was no way she was going to get drawn away from this subject. “It’s not really a nickname per se. It’s more like an in-joke? I don’t know, he said that I’m less brown sugar and more of a scotch bonnet, so I guess he started calling me Scotch and it just stuck—”  Aminah stopped dead and I stumbled as I ground to a halt and turned around. “Um. I’m sorry. You mean to tell me that Malakai called you spicy?”  I took a minute to catch my breath and undid my braids from their bun, put my hairband in my mouth and flipped my head over to tie them again in the hopes that the time it took would lead Aminah to forget about anything that was mentioned. It wasn’t even loose but I needed a distraction. Unfortunately, by the time I had retied it Aminah was still smiling at me, smugly.  “I want a boy to call me a seasoning. Do you think I can get Kofi to start calling me Maggi Cube?”  I started stretching. “Okay, you know what? I’m not talking about this anymore.”  “Maybe Bay Leaf? No, Bae Leaf. Ha ha. Wow, Scotch and Bae Leaf. Sounds like a badass Blaxapolitan detective show.”  “So, what’s happening between you and Kofi?”  Aminah smiled slyly. “I’m gonna ignore you ignoring me because I love you. Nothing. Still making him work. I mean I’m kind of chill about it because I already know he’s going to be my husband.”  I stopped stretching my quads and straightened up. “Pardon?”  Aminah shrugged and raised an arm above her head to stretch it. “I just know it. I can’t explain it. I’m not even in love with him yet, but I feel like I’m going to be and it will be deep. He is sweet and kind and treats me like a princess and loves God. You know how fucking spiritual I am. So spiritual I am bireligio—”  “Not a thing.”  “—and you like him, and you don’t like anyone. I like him. We’ll probably fight over what jollof rice we’ll serve at the wedding because I don’t know if I’m ready to have Ghanaian jollof at my reception, but maybe we’ll be able to reach a compromise. When I look at him, I feel safe.” She smiled and switched arms. “The point is, he has me. But I don’t want him to ever take that for granted so I gotta create the illusion of pursuit. Know what I mean?”  I bent to stretch my other leg. “Not really, but I trust that you know what you mean. Wow, Minah, I knew you liked him but I didn’t know you liked him this much—”  Aminah shrugged and grinned. “Yeah, me neither. But the other day we were studying together and he casually brings out plantain chips—Dad’s brand, of course—and my favorite strawberry juice drink from his rucksack. You have to go to Eastside to get that drink. They don’t sell it around here. It’s imported from, like, Kenya. He didn’t even look at me while he was doing it, he just tossed it my way and then started talking to me about the newest track he was producing and I don’t know . . .” She exhaled deeply and spread her arms out, shaking her head, her eyes and smile bright. “I just wanted to jump his bones right there in the study room and also snuggle him? It was, like, woah, this boy thinks about me even when he’s not thinking. And I feel so relaxed around him. Like more me. Like I’m the greatest me. I only ever feel like that around you. And no offense, but I don’t want to snog your face off.”  “That’s a lie.”  Aminah inclined her head gravely. “You’re right. Come here, sexy.”  I laughed and threw my arms around her neck, kissing her cheek. “I’m really happy for you,” I said as she playfully pushed me off. “Kai should actually interview you guys for his film.” I paused as I noticed the two figures moving closer toward us across the courtyard, just behind her head. “Wait, that really is Shanti and Chioma.”  There had long been civility between the femme factions in Blackwell and Malakai Korede’s presence had disrupted that. I had now situated myself firmly in the midst of that disruption, after purporting to help combat it. Chioma and Shanti weren’t friends; they were from two separate cliques, and the only reason I could see for these two queens to unite was war. Shit. “Shit!” Aminah turned around just as they reached us and immediately backed up next to me, fortifying us for attack, leaning her arm on my shoulder as if we really were the Blaxpolitan detective duo Scotch & Bae Leaf. She nodded at them. “Chioma, Shanti. What’s up?” Shanti nodded back, her large gold earrings jangling with the movement as she wrapped her fur gilet tighter around her body. “Kiki, Aminah. Hi. We’re actually on our way to dinner.” I raised a brow and straightened, and Aminah’s shock slid her arm off my shoulder. “You guys are hanging out?” Chioma laughed, her silver septum ring adorning her already pretty smile. “We bonded over thinking that you were a duplicitous bitch.” I felt Aminah stiffen next to me and I surreptitiously reached out to hold her wrist to calm her down. I nodded. “Ah. Okay. I mean, that’s fair. I can see how it looks.” Shanti rolled her tongue in her mouth. “It looked like you were being a snake. It looked like you wanted to isolate Malakai for yourself after acting like you were some kind of guru for the gyaldem.” Chioma quickly interjected, just as I felt Aminah’s tongue being unsheathed and mine begin to feel heavy: “What Shanti means, is that sometimes on the show you come across like you’re not really one of us. I mean, the femme community of Blackwell us. Know what I mean? It’s like you’re this weird floater who judges us from the outside. And we didn’t do that to you, by the way. We constantly invite you to shit—all the girls do— and you turn us down. Even Aminah shows up to stuff sometimes. And don’t get me wrong, your advice was great but sometimes it could seem a little—” “Like you think you’re better than us,” Shanti finished for her. An unpleasant coolness settled in my stomach. I thought my reason for reclusion was self-protection, not superiority, but despite myself I could see how warped it would look from their vantage point. Chioma nudged Shanti and Aminah straightened and took a step forward. “Okay, what’s going on here? Is this an ambush?! Because I can fight and still look fine. My setting spray was expensive—” Shanti shrugged. “Well, so was mine. La Mystique, got it from Sephora when I was in Amsterdam.”  Aminah paused and stood back. “I use La Mystique too, got it from Paris.”  Shanti’s eyes glimmered beneath her lush lash extensions with something that looked like respect. “Look, this isn’t an ambush. We just came over to say that we rate the show you’re doing with Malakai. You guys sound legit.” She ran her eyes across me. “And honestly? I kinda rate you now, Kiki. Not just your advice, but, like, you. You sound more relaxed, like you’re not judging but you’re living this shit with us. Experiencing it with us. Not this self-appointed head bitch in charge who knows it all. I mean, at the last FreakyFridayz you were dancing with girls that weren’t Aminah, actually talking to people.”  Chioma nodded in agreement. “I mean personally I’ve always known that you’ve had a good aura but it has always been shrouded by something, you know.” Her voice sounded like wind chimes, a melodic scent of sweet, musky essential oils wafting from her. “It’s like you’re open now. Also, you put Malakai through his paces. He’s a good guy, deep down—all of us know that—but he is tangled. Doesn’t want what he thinks he wants. Or wants what he thinks he doesn’t want.”  Shanti smiled wryly at that. “Either way, he was getting us mixed up in his mix-up. Glad he apologized, though. How did you get him to do that?”  I allowed myself to relax a little with the turn of conversation and released a tentative laugh. “Uh, that was all him. He’s figuring some things out, I think.”  Chioma waved a hand. “Please. No way he would have got there without you. Gotta say, though, I was surprised by the text he sent afterward.”  Aminah and I exchanged a glance. I attempted the appearance of nonchalance. “Uh, he texted you?”  Shanti’s immaculate arches shot up. “Oh, wow. You didn’t know. He texted both of us. All of us.” At the look on my face, she smiled. “They were apologies, Kiki. Chill.”  I’d failed at the appearance of nonchalance. I cleared my throat. “I’m chill. I wasn’t—”  Shanti smirked at my denial and Chioma spoke over it. “Bad communication. Misrepresenting his intentions. Said we deserved better—”  “Strong agree.” Shanti’s interjection was peppered with a sharp smile. “We compared notes. All the apologies were specific to our situations. It was . . . satisfying to receive. I mean, I didn’t respond, obviously, but it was satisfying.”  The new information coursed through me and counteracted the snippy evening breeze. If the apology was a performance, he would have told me about it. He wanted to do it. Defenses I didn’t even know I had up lowered, and I levelled a gaze at both Shanti and Chioma.  “Well, you both deserved those apologies. And I, uh, appreciate you telling me you like the show. I’m also really sorry if it ever seemed like I was judging you. I wasn’t. Or at least, I didn’t mean to. I just . . .” I shrugged, feeling freer than I had in a while. “I don’t know, man, you’re all so cool and I just wanted to keep you guys from pricks because I . . . I have been there. And I’ve seen how it can mess things up. But I wanted to do that without exposing myself, which, yes, makes me a hypocrite. I was just intimidated, I guess?”  Shanti looked incredulous. “Intimidated? Kiki, you’re, like, the most listened to voice on campus. Brown Sugar is the only platform all the cliques are united over. You’re respected here. Even if you weren’t, you never gave us a chance.”  It suddenly felt hard to remember why I worked to not integrate fully, to remain on the watchtower on the outskirts, guarding the girls but also guarding myself. Seeing everything but feeling nothing.  I swallowed. “You’re right. There’s some, uh, friendship trauma there. I think I was worried that you guys wouldn’t like me if I was all of me you know? Like I would let you down or something.” I inhaled deeply and felt my tongue coiling up, ready to leap forth and ignore rationality. “I think that’s why I was afraid to admit that I was seeing a guy on campus.”  Both Shanti’s and Chioma’s faces slackened, eyes widening in a way that almost made me laugh.  Shanti uttered a “Shut. The. Fuck. Up.”  Chioma shook her head and grinned knowingly. “I knew it. I knew it. I knew you had a secret wild vibe about you!”  The only person who didn’t seem amused by my impromptu confession was Aminah. My best friend glared at me. “What are you doing?” She whipped back to a puzzled-looking Chioma and Shanti. “No, she didn’t. She’s chatting shit.” She lowered her voice and muttered in my ear, “Don’t let this Cheetah Girls moment get to you.”  In the past three weeks I’d felt myself getting looser, more unleashed, trusting myself to trust and for some reason I looked at Chioma and Shanti and felt I could trust them. If they were apparently able to venture into friendship after both dating Malakai, if they could say what they thought of me to my face without any real animosity (I kind of liked Shanti’s bite) then I presumed there was something in both of them that I could trust. I was good with the risk.  I squeezed Aminah’s arm. “It’s fine, MiMi. It’s really not that deep.” I ignored her incredulous look and turned back to Chioma and Shanti. “So that first kiss between Malakai and I? It was just a ploy. The guy I was seeing was bothering me that night and I couldn’t get him to leave me alone. Malakai noticed and I noticed Malakai noticing, and we kissed to get him off my back. It just happened. Things just kind of went from there. Turned out we actually got on, and one thing led to another.” Technically, none of this was a lie.  Shanti frowned, puzzle pieces visibly falling into formation in her mind’s eye. “Hold up. The only other guy you were seen with that night was—”  Chioma gasped, her bejewelled hand flying to her mouth, causing her multiple bangles to jangle. “ZACK KINGSFORD?”  Aminah hissed out an angry “Shhh” and glared at me. “You see now? Are you happy? This girl speaks in R&B interlude whispers and all of a sudden she is hollering that goat’s name in the quad!” She put a single lilac-painted finger to her temple and started rubbing in tiny circles. “Chioma, will you please keep your voice down, abeg!”  Chioma, still evidently flustered, managed to nod. “Right, my bad.” She gestured at a nearby bench and we all congregated on it, legs squished together. Aminah reluctantly followed suit, rolling her eyes and muttering something about how this was disrupting our workout routine as she squeezed in between me and the bench armrest.  Shanti sat forward, placed two hands together in prayer, and pointed them at me. “Aite. Okay. Break it down for us.”  My skin began to prickle as I told them about our nine-month fling and what had happened that night. It was clarifying to something ugly, something that made my stomach queasy.  Chioma shook her head, eyes widened in defiance. “Ew. His energy is dark.”  Shanti nodded grimly. “Babe, that sounds so shit.” I swallowed as truth and realization began to unpick the discomfort I’d compressed. “It was kind of fucked.” Shanti’s eyes were soft now. “It was fucked. Not your fault for not seeing it. It’s so easy with him. One second, you’re flirting and the next it’s something else you’re not sure of.” Chioma rubbed my arm. “Right. He’s a dick, I mean, even without the whole debate thing he’s doing with the Whitewell Knights.” Her normally sweet, placid face grew hard. “I wanna figure out a hex for him. How does he even get away with this?” “He’s rich, light-skinned, and looks like a Calvin Klein model,” Shanti said, procuring a handful of lollies from her pocket and sticking one into her mouth, before offering them to the rest of us. Aminah nodded as she tugged the wrapper off a strawberry sphere. “Says ‘diverse people’ instead of ‘Black people.’ He never spoke to any of the Black boys in school. They made an effort to, as well. Did a Mandem 101 course the summer before uni with a couple of cousins and decided to do a rebrand that suited him.” I smiled as I popped one of Shanti’s lollies in my mouth. “Did you know he once referred to himself as ‘perfectly blended’?” The girls snorted. Shanti screeched, “Like a fucking smoothie?” Aminah grinned. “Kind of perfect since his brain has no solidity.” As the girls took turns in delightfully roasting Zack, my phone buzzed and I slipped it out the zipper of my gym leggings.  KAI: Aite. A couple things.  KAI: I tried to make jollof rice for dinner, but I burned it. I think the missing ingredient was a special breed of Scotch bonnet only found in the suburbs of east London. May make your eyes water but the payoff is worth it. Will you come over tomorrow and watch me make it? I feel like your judgmental gaze will force me to be better (as well as you literally being a chef’s daughter).  KAI: In case this wasn’t clear this is a formal invitation for you to have dinner with me tomorrow.  KAI: I just remembered you’re working out with Aminah right now. Tell her hi from me and to accept my ProntoPic request. She’s hurting my feelings. It’s been like a week and a half since I sent it, man. Last week I literally saw her scroll past my request in front of me when we went to the movies with her and Kofi.

I made a sound that was too close to a giggle for comfort.  Shanti’s brow popped up. “That was Malakai wasn’t it?”  I cleared my throat awkwardly. “Yeah, sorry.”  Chioma’s smile was dry. “Why you apologizing? You know what the worst thing about Malakai Korede is? You can’t hate him. Believe me, I tried. I wanted to hate him so bad. But I never had an issue with who he is. I like his aura. Lots of light green in it. He’s sweet. It’s just that he always had a guard up.”  Shanti affirmed that with a rueful nod. “Super thoughtful and attentive, but as soon as you ask something personal his shoulders would get all high and he’d get shifty and itchy and change the subject. I never knew what he was thinking. Every day it was like tryna do some kind of romance sudoku. A peng puzzle. Who has the time? Okay, well, I did, I guess.”  It had been three or so weeks and I’d never once really felt like I had to work to know what was going on in Malakai’s mind, but I still felt a form of the block the girls spoke about, the way he veered away if I asked questions about before he got here, about why he was here.  Shanti nodded at Aminah and me as she rubbed the arms of her black bodysuit. Fur gilets looked sexy but weren’t exactly practical when you were straddling the cusp of autumn and winter in an English town. “Look, what you girls doing now? Chi-Chi and I were going to this new dim sum place in town—obviously they have a vegan option—and they’re doing a student discount tonight. Wanna come? Split a cab?”  To my surprise, Aminah jumped in immediately. “Why not? This workout has tired me out and I actually want to hear more about your makeup routine because your beat is immaculate.” She flicked her eyes across Shanti’s face, an everyday look that somehow shimmered, a pretty face that was shaped and pressed in a way that somehow unlocked even more beauty. “Also, I want to know if Chioma can really work out a way to hex Zack.”  I quirked a brow at Aminah and in response she twitched a shoulder and winked. Despite her earlier prickliness, I knew the girls had won her over by their dragging of Zack and their lack of judgment to my hooking up with him.  I smiled as we got up and headed toward the campus gates. “I’m down too. But could we please keep the origin of my and Malakai’s kiss to ourselves? And the whole Zack thing—”  Shanti wrapped her gilet around her and looked me in the eye. “Say less, sis. Secret’s safe with us. Besides, what matters is that what you guys have is real.”  I coughed and made a general sound of assent. My conception of real was growing more confused by the day. I didn’t know what real was anymore. Chapter 18


The six-pack cardboard crate of Supermalt jangled slightly against two six- quid bottles of pinot as I rushed through the heavy glass doors into Malakai’s building. It provided percussion to the faded jumble of music flowing from open windows into the residential quad. A hall resident had gone in before me, allowing me to slip in without buzzing up. Malakai had technically invited me over to dinner, which meant it was custom for me to bring something. That’s what adults did on Netflix shows about married people with dark secrets. I wasn’t sure what wine would pair with jollof rice and chicken, and the attendant at Tesco Metro wasn’t really that much help. I think I’d seen them slamming down six Jägerbombs in a row at union before. So, alongside the dry white, I went for something foolproof, a staple of Naija hall parties, bought from a shop in Eastside. Personally, I didn’t have a taste for it. It felt more like a medicinal meal supplement than a beverage to be enjoyed, but Malakai loved it, frequently ordering the Supermalt float at Sweetest Ting, with the quip “It’s the one thing I know you won’t want”—although he never stopped me from picking at his plate.  This wasn’t the first time I’d been in his flat or in his room; we’d had study sessions multiple times over the past few weeks where we went over each other’s projects. These sessions lead to us eating pizza, watching Twilight, and going through Will Smith’s oeuvre. I’d take videos of Malakai acting out his favorite scenes (Edward first smelling Bella) and we’d take selfies that Malakai would caption with “study sesh with my favorite subject” to the reception of dozens of delighted heart-eye emojis and proclamations that we were #goalz.  This, however, was the first time we’d be hanging out in his room for the purpose of just chilling. This felt different. This was different. There was no set agenda of work, or at least no pretense of an agenda, because, being real, we barely got any work done together. Either way, as I punched the upward arrow by the lift, I began to recognize what Aminah had previously diagnosed as nerves: my belly-borne butterflies flapping chaotically, palms prickling.  Was this a real chill date? I had no idea what “real” meant in our context but I knew that the pounding in my ears felt pretty fucking real.  Was it too late to cancel? I was genuinely hungry, though, and Malakai had promised me that at the very least his chicken would bang.  I steadied myself as the lift doors opened. This wasn’t a big deal.  It was Malakai for goodness sake.  It was Malakai, so I was guaranteed a fun, easy time,  It was Malakai, so there was nothing to be nervous about.  It was Malakai and this was strictly platonic because he did not like me like that.  The door to his flat was left ajar, propped open with a shoebox. Kofi lived in the flat opposite, and Malakai often left his door open so Kofi could come through with ease, borrow some milk, some Maggi cubes. I maneuvered myself through the door, still balancing the crate, when I heard muffled voices coming from Malakai’s room. At first, I thought that he was with Kofi and was about to push his bedroom door open when I clarified that these voices sounded angry. The one that wasn’t Malakai’s was lower and gruffer and had a Nigerian lilt to its bass that made the anger thunderous.  “Malakai, you study film? And you didn’t tell me? I have to find out from your mother that you dropped out of your economics course at one of the top universities in the country, months after the fact—”  “Dad. This is also a top university. Or does it not count because it’s not the same university your friends’ children go to? It’s the top for what I want to do. Which, yes, is film.” Malakai’s voice was now almost jaunty in its affability, but it was askew, a distorted funfair ditty in a horror movie.  “Olalekan, I am in Nigeria building for this family, building for my legacy, being a man for this family! You, too, should learn to be a man. Life isn’t easy. You think it was easy for me after my father died and I—”  I heard Malakai chuckle humorlessly. “Here we go.”  “Yes, here we go. I had to step up and hustle to help my mother provide for my siblings. At seventeen. You make sacrifices in order to be responsible. I like cameras too. Do you think I wouldn’t rather have been gallivanting with my friends, taking pictures, having fun? This is a hobby. You can do a proper, solid degree while doing that on the side. Pictures don’t pay bills. Making films will not pay bills.”  “It could for me. I’m good. I work hard. Isn’t that enough?” Malakai’s voice was low. It sounded younger and there was a vulnerability under the frustration, the hurt in trying to prove he wasn’t in pain. It sliced through me. I should have left. I’d gone past “accidentally stumbling in on his argument” to eavesdropping a few minutes back, but I found myself frozen to the spot, holding the bag of drinks tight to my chest as if Malakai would feel the comfort via transubstantiation.  “And you could work just as hard in economics. I tried to understand when you took time off when . . . what happened, happened.”  “‘When what happened, happened’? Is that how we’re describing it now? Dad, just say it. When you—”  “Malakai, I am still your father. I admit, I have made mistakes. And yes, you went through . . . something. But we all go through things. When your grandfather, Olalekan Korede, the person you were named after, the hardest-working man I knew, when he died, I found working more useful than sitting around getting depressed. You didn’t even lose someone! Nevertheless, I tried to understand.  “Abi, your generation is different? So, I let you take those few months off for whatever was going on in your head. The plan was that you would make up what you missed in the summer. But you were taking your father for a fool, abi? Olalekan, this is nonsense. Your mother said you needed time to heal. What kind of healing? Healing, kini? What happened was between me and your mother. Is it the healing that made you go mad? Because this is a mad decision, I am telling you now, son. You are being irresponsible. What kind of example are you setting for your brother?”  “What kind of example have you been setting? You come in here, talking about mistakes like you’re not this destructive hurricane.” Now the pain had risen to the surface, mingled with the anger, and it broke through into Kai’s voice, through the air.  “Watch your tongue, boy.”  “This is the first time you’re seeing me in four months. Four months, Dad. It only took you so long to find out what I was doing because you barely remembered you have a family here. You remembered that you were supposed to be playacting apologetic. Even before I only ever saw you when I went to Lagos and you were barely home then.”  His father cleared his throat. “Rubbish. I introduced you to my friends.”  “You’re introducing who you want me to be to them. You used to say, ‘This is my son Malakai, studying economics at Norchester. Did you know Norchester is one of the top universities for economics? Only reason he didn’t choose LSE is because of his girlfriend, Ama. Beautiful girl, daughter of Ekenna—my business partner. Yes, yes, we are building a legacy, o!’ You would invite me to dinner, but then it would end up being a dinner between myself and six of your friends, and you’d ignore me until you told me I needed to make an effort in Lagos. That it was my home, and so, at the weekend, I’d go off on my own exploring with some creatives I’ve connected with, and when I got back you’d yell at me, because ‘that is not what you should be doing, son! What will my friends think if they find out my son is gallivanting like an area boy?’” Malakai released a brisk, hollow chuckle. “Dad, what were you doing gallivanting like an area boy?”  “Olalekan!” I felt the glass bottles in my grip tremble a little at the thunder in his voice.  “Ah. Ẹ ma binu, sir.” Malakai’s apology was a jaunty taunt. “Sir, who are you building for? Ehn? Daddy, tani? Who? Is it Muyiwa who barely knows you? Or Mum? The woman who I heard cry herself to sleep over you? It definitely ain’t me. Sending money is not enough, Dad. I am grateful, I am, and I am blessed, I know, and you work hard, I know, but it is not enough. Before I came to uni, I was Muyiwa’s dad. I was teaching him all the things you should have taught us.” Malakai’s voice was hoarse and I heard a loud thump as if he was slapping his chest. “Me! And I don’t even know if I’m doing it right. How am I supposed to know if I’m doing it right?” Malakai’s voice cracked and it reverberated through my chest. I realized my eyes were watering.  “You say I don’t understand what it’s like to lose a father. It doesn’t feel that way.”  I should have walked away. I couldn’t. It wasn’t a case of being nosy— this was none of my business, I knew that—but for some reason Malakai felt like he was my business, and even though he didn’t know I was there for him, I wanted to be.  When his father’s voice spoke, it was quiet and crackling, the menacing spark of fire in a sleeping house. A flicker with the potential to raze to the ground, to destroy. “I will pretend you didn’t say that. For your sake.”  Malakai’s laugh was dark and hollow, painful to hear, a cruel pastiche of his usual bellow that was dense with light. “You know what’s mad? I chose a business studies combination because after everything, everything, some small part of me thought that might make you happy. Ain’t that wild?”  His father cleared his throat into pungent quiet. “Malakai. I have paid for my errors—”  “How?”  “By allowing you to speak to me like I am your mate. But it is my job to make sure that you become a man.”  “I’m involved in a decision for my life for once. Ain’t that manly?”  “Being a man is about making stable decisions. This is reckless, frivolous, and indulgent. I’m worried you weren’t in your right mind when you made this decision.”  His father’s voice had barely risen a decibel, and yet it rung loud and clear, the words leaving his mouth like a salvo.  There was a silence that could slice through sinews.  “Yeah, you’re right, Dad. I guess the months I couldn’t get out of bed weren’t very manly.”  “Malakai, that’s not what I—”  “This decision helped make my mind right.” Malakai’s voice was quiet and ferocious, but still, I heard the break in it.  I didn’t need to see Malakai to see him. I should go. He didn’t need me. I knocked.  When Malakai opened his door, his eyes were glistening. I could see the effort he put into pulling the fragments of his face into something resembling casualness, affability. I wanted to tell him that he didn’t have to do that.  “Kiki, hey—”  Malakai’s father stood behind him, slightly shorter, in a smart, slate-gray wool coat over a white shirt and navy chinos, a business casual demigod. It was as if he were controlling the air in the room, his familiar, handsome face imperious. He pushed his hand into a pocket as he regarded me with gentle curiosity behind expensive frames. I saw the tension in his gaze morph into a calculated amiability. I forced my voice to sound bright. “Good evening, sir.” He nodded at me, the gesture almost imperceptible. “Good evening.” He turned to Malakai, voice placid, slipping into Yoruba, “Şé işę ẹ rě? Şe nítorí ęni tí o şe fé sọ ayé ẹ nù ré? Má d’ àbí èmi,” to inquire, “Is that your work? Is this why you’re throwing your life away? Don’t be like me.” Malakai straightened, his posture somehow both softened by the presence of his father, but also frigid, defensive. “You don’t have to worry about that. And you don’t get to talk about people I care about like they’re not in the room. This is Kikiola.” “Orẹ ni wa, sir,” I said to Malakai’s father. “We’re friends,” I repeated, as if to emphasize the point, as if to draw the battle lines, to make it clear that I was present as emotional backup here, if need be. Malakai’s father studied me carefully before I saw the tiny movement of his mouth that could have been a smile, if you squinted with hope. I moved further into the room, kept my voice jovial. “We almost weren’t friends, though, he was competing with me for the top spot in class, which was irritating. Then I saw his short film and decided he was worthy competition, which was even more irritating as I really don’t like conceding brilliance to men.” My smile was wide and bright, and the shadows in Malakai’s father’s eyes receded slightly, his expression sitting somewhere between bemusement and amusement. Malakai’s expression was inscrutable when I turned to him. “I can go.” He shook his head. “No. No, my dad was just leaving. He has a flight to catch early tomorrow, back to Nigeria. This was a quick visit.” Malakai’s father rubbed his jaw in a gesture reminiscent of his son. “We’re not finished here.” He hesitated and for the first time I saw a hint of uncertainty in his gaze. His eyes darted between Malakai and me. Malakai just stared at the wall behind his father’s head, jaw taut, fists balled. His father nodded deeply, more to himself than anyone else. “Take care, son. Lovely to meet you, Kikiola. Help me keep this one out of trouble.” “I’ll do my best. But no promises.” He smiled at me, and he looked so much like Malakai in that moment, I almost gasped. It wasn’t a big smile, but it was present, enough to let me know that when it stretched it could hold the same shine as his son’s. “Your Yoruba is good, by the way.”  It was somewhere between an apology and an acknowledgment of something that had nothing to do with my skills in my ancestral tongue. “Ę şé, sir. Ìrìn àjò áá dára.”  He patted the left side of his chest in gracious acceptance of my wishes for his safe journey and walked out of the room, leaving a hefty, wealthy, oud-scented breeze behind. It wasn’t till we heard the kick of the shoebox and the slamming of the front door that either of us moved.  The smile Malakai gave me as he took the bag of drinks gratefully was sweet in its effort. The attempt squeezed at my chest. He put the bag on his dresser, then immediately sat on the bed, bending over, his face buried in his hands. I moved next to him, silently sitting down on his plain navy Ikea sheets. He was still, and so I thought the best thing to do was also be still. I stared straight ahead at his If Beale Street Could Talk poster.  Eventually he spoke, his voice muffled by his hands. “How much did you hear?”  “Enough.” I swallowed. “You pissed?”  “Not at you.”  Malakai straightened, his hands dropping to his thighs. He inhaled deeply, then exhaled with a puff of his cheeks. His eyes were red. Malakai pursed his lips and nodded quickly, as if he was hoping the action would make the emotion ebb. He released a humorless choke of a laugh.  “This isn’t how I imagined my girlfriend’s introduction to my dad to be.”  I knew he meant “girlfriend” in the false sense, in our sense, in the nonsense sense. I nudged his shoulder with mine. “Yeah? How did you expect for me to meet him? Over four courses at our engagement dinner at Nobu?”  “Never.”  Malakai’s voice was hard as he evaded my gaze, his eyes trained on the poster ahead of him. Regular Malakai would have gone along with the bit: Nah, on the private jet to the private island we booked for our wedding week.  I got it. He didn’t need me to make him feel better. He knew his dad, and he needed to feel what he had to feel. I barely registered reaching for Malakai’s hand. It happened as I exhaled. I brought it to my lap, clasping it tight. Malakai squeezed my hand back immediately. We sat in solemn silence for a few moments, but then my insensitive stomach released a loud, obnoxious, petulant growl. No. I held still, hoping Malakai hadn’t noticed. He didn’t move either. Ignoring it seemed to work. We were quiet for a few more moments before Malakai’s shoulders started jutting, slowly and then quickly and his breath leaped out in sharp bursts. I bit my lip but it just made my snort come out nasal. Then we spontaneously combusted. Pressurized laughter tumbled over from us, as we tumbled over each other.  “I.” Rapid inhale and exhale. “Am.” Wheeze, some hyperventilation. “So sorry.”  Malakai got up from the bed and reached out a hand to me, his eyes brighter now, lighter now. “Alright, Nala. Let’s get you some food.”  I placed my hand in his and allowed him to haul me up toward the door. He didn’t let go till we reached the kitchen.

“Alright. Well done. This banged.” I pushed the last forkful of moist, stewy, peppery rice into my mouth.  Malakai smiled as he rose from the dining table with both of our plates. “We did good. And yes, I recognize it was a team effort. Don’t know how I could have done it without you drinking wine and shouting commands at me.”  I inclined my head in a regal bow. “You’re welcome. I think my morale boosting is really what gave it a moreish kick.”  “I think it was the bay leaves.”  “Who reminded you to put the bay leaves in?”  Malakai laughed and sat back down at the table, taking a swig of his Supermalt. We hadn’t mentioned what I’d walked in on. Malakai deliberately left no space for it.  We’d bantered as he crushed the Maggi cubes, blended the peppers, tomatoes, onions. He’d already marinated the wings overnight in a special concoction that involved honey and assorted spices, and the aroma filled the kitchen, spicing up our laughter as the dish baked in the oven. The chicken was good, falling off the bone, the seasoning sinking through the flesh, through marrow, saturated with flavor. I was impressed. And satisfied. So satisfied I could feel myself getting sleepy. I pushed my chair back, yawning.  “Sorry.”  Malakai smiled at me. “You want dessert? I can offer you store-brand ice cream sprinkled with Frosties while we watch an Eddie Murphy movie of your choice. Didn’t you say he was your first human crush?”  I patted my stomach and stretched. “As delicious as that sounds, I think I need to bounce. I’ve got some reports to fill out for the project.”  Malakai’s smile dimmed. “Yeah. Of course.”  He turned to the sink and started washing up. I watched him for a while quietly before joining him, grabbing a dishcloth and drying the plates in the rack.  “We do have one more bottle of wine. Let’s start with Boomerang.” I released a low whistle, as I carefully dried a fork. “Eddie was peak peng in that.”  Malakai splashed me with suds.  We weren’t five minutes into the film when Malakai brought it up. We were sat side by side, on his bed, cracking jokes, drinking mugs of wine (he, naturally, didn’t have wine glasses) when he fell silent, as if trying to configure his words.  “I should explain that Nollywood drama. That’s part of the deal. Communication?”  “Only if you want to. We’re only playing boyfriend and girlfriend—”  “But we’re not playing at being friends.”  The question was folded delicately into the statement. I picked up the remote and paused the contraband TV, turning to him fully, swivelling myself on folded legs so I was opposite him.  “No.”  Malakai’s mouth ticked up with a relief that made my belly flip. “Good. That could have been real embarrassing. Because the other day I realized, that aside from Kofi, you’re probably the closest person to me at Whitewell.”  My heart felt like it’d been pumped with helium, gassed, airy, overblown, too big for my body, too full.  “Yeah. You’re the same to me,” I managed casually. “Aside from Aminah. That’s tragic. Should we join a book club or something?”  Malakai grinned something sweet before he rubbed the back of his neck. “I want to tell you. But it isn’t easy for me to talk about.”  “That’s okay.”  The quiet that fell between us was comfortable, a continuation of conversation. I let it lie for a few moments before I ventured into it.  “How about we sit here and watch the movie, and whenever, if ever, you feel like it, you can talk to me?”  The grateful look Malakai threw me made my chest ache. “That sounds good.”  I unpaused the TV, reduced the volume, and turned to look at Eddie Murphy’s charming, bright, wide smile, as he flirted with a flawlessly coiffed babe.  “My dad actually always reminded me of Eddie Murphy.”  I turned to look at Malakai, but his eyes were still on the screen so I followed suit. “Yeah?”  “I think that’s why I loved his movies so much. Charismatic, handsome —and I know he didn’t seem like it just now, but he can be really funny when he wants to be. When I was younger, I loved when people said we looked alike, loved when my mum said I reminded her of him. I liked having something of him. He dropped out of school to provide for his family, prided himself on being a ‘self-made businessman.’ An entrepreneur. Providing was his idea of affection.  “More than once I overheard my mum calling him in Lagos on my or my brother’s birthday to remind him to call us. Then he’d visit for a week and buy us a bike that he wouldn’t teach us to ride because he didn’t have the time, but everything was cool. He’d kiss my mum on the cheek and dance with her in the living room to Earth, Wind & Fire and say, ‘My dear, everything I do is for us, I’m building for our kingdom,’ like everything was fucking cool.” Malakai’s voice was brittle. I linked my arm through his, squeezed it against my body.  He cleared his throat. “I started dating Ama because he encouraged it. I chose to study economics because that’s what he wanted me to study. To learn business, so I could work with him one day. I just thought it was a case of doing things, you know? Like, I could earn him giving a shit.” Malakai’s voice was muted of emotion, calculatedly casual.  “I found out my dad cheated on my mum just as I started first year. It involved a woman messaging me on Facebook, of all fucking things. Almost the worst part of it—she sent pictures of herself in the house in Lagos. Pictures of her with my dad. I guess my dad got bored of her and she wanted revenge. It was kind of genius, actually. Because then I was in the really fun position of telling my dad that I had seen a woman draped all over him on the sofa my mum had picked out and if he didn’t tell her, I would.”  His eyes were assiduously trained down, jaw tight, tense with the memory of the emotional burden of carrying information that would rupture your family and also having your hero lose his status in a matter of seconds. My whole body felt for him. I wanted to hold him.  “Shit, man.” He pressed the balls of his palms to his eyes. “Sorry, I don’t know why . . .”  I clambered up so I was sat in front of him, nestled between his legs, back to his chest. He instantly relaxed against me as I took his hands in mine and brought them together around my waist.  “You’re good, Kai.”  Malakai leaned his forehead against the back of my head. “It’s mad how shocked you can be by something that you were always prepped to find out. Mad how much it can still really fucking hurt. How angry you can still be. And it wasn’t until then that I realized how much I was holding on to this idea of my dad. I could excuse shit because I genuinely thought he cared. I bought into the whole building a kingdom thing, like some cult follower. It was like I’d been brainwashed.”  “Kai, you can’t blame yourself for looking up to your dad—”  “It’s just, I wanted to be him so bad. Despite everything. Always cool, always collected, nothing could phase him. Life of any party. Capable. And he turned out to be a selfish mess. Cowardly. This giant became so . . . tiny. He always said he couldn’t come to England because of his schedule at work but he managed to get a flight to Heathrow two days after our call.”  “He told your mum?”  “He tried to send us out the house, but I dropped my brother at a mate’s and snuck back. I wanted to be there for my mum. Neither of them heard me come in. She was screaming at him. From her gut. This . . . mad sound. And I heard her say, ‘I could handle you doing it to me. I accepted it. I said, He does his job, he takes care of me. But our children? Malakai had to find out that you’re a whore from one of your toys? You can’t even be neat about it? My heart was not enough, you had to break our sons’ too?’ And it went real quiet because I guess that was when my dad realized that my mum had known the whole time.  “She goes, ‘Oh, you think I’m a fool like you? That’s the problem. You’ve always thought me that young girl that you could easily impress. I can bring up your children but not be part of your world.’ You know, the worst part is that even now they’re still kind of together? Nothing has changed. He’s still in Nigeria, still treats us like extracurricular. I just don’t know what they’ve worked out. All I know is that I felt like the ground shifted beneath me. I just shut down.”  The gust of breath Malakai released warmed my neck, and his arms tightened about me. It was a few moments before he spoke again.  “I clocked that so much of what I based my life on was bullshit. My relationship with Ama, my degree. All of it was to impress a man who was a liar. And I just . . . became really fucking sad. I couldn’t tell what was up or down anymore. Ama was sympathetic at first . . . actually closer to pitying. But it got frustrating for her, which I get. I mean, now I realize I was having a breakdown. I wasn’t going to class, didn’t want to go out. I wasn’t myself.  “When I told her that I was having doubts about my degree, she said I was dramatic, irresponsible, that she’d tried to be cool but this was the last straw. It wasn’t even really a breakup, it was like . . . two people finally being set free from something they didn’t know they were trapped in. After we split, I couldn’t figure out why I even wanted to stay at that uni. I spoke to Kofi and it looked like he was having the time of his life here. Plus, Whitewell had the perfect course for me.”  “And then you decided to come scatter tings.”  Malakai laughed, the sound rumbling through my body. “When I got here, I wanted to start over. I wanted to move somewhere with no expectations of me. When people have expectations you can disappoint them. I also . . . man, I don’t know how like my dad I really am. I have his smile, I have his eyes, who the fuck knows if I have his predisposition for being a cheating asshole? Like maybe if I was in a relationship long enough, I’d turn out like him? I thought it was better to avoid them altogether. I’ve seen how destructive it can be when you fuck up.  “Thinking about it, that’s probably part of what the film’s about. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I thought it was about understanding women, but . . . I think maybe I’m trying to figure out what relationships are? How they can work and if I’m cut out for a real one. Trying to build a playbook to avoid failure. Just in case.”  “Kai . . . you’re not a cheater and you can’t inherit a cheating gene. I just think you have to trust yourself to be who you are. And I think who you are is good.”  Malakai’s arms were still anchoring me to him, and they squeezed in response to my words. His voice was slightly more gruff when he spoke again. “I haven’t really talked about any of this stuff like this before. Thanks, Scotch. For—”  “What are fake girlfriends who are also real friends for?”  There was a snug, sweet beat, before his voice gently inquired, “How can you be so sure I’m not a cheater?”  I shrugged. “You don’t hide who you are, you’re open with it. I mean, yeah, you could have been clearer on some things . . . and you’re careful about how much of yourself you show sometimes, but who you are was never in question.”  Malakai was quiet for a while. “Were you cheated on?” he asked finally.  I found that once my truth tasted freedom it was harder to hold captive, particularly around Malakai. “Not exactly. I was the cheater.”  Shit. Shit. I wasn’t meant to say that. How did he do that? Mellow me enough for calcified secrets to soften and slip? Malakai said nothing, but his arms didn’t move from around my waist. My heart started pounding triple time against my chest, and my hands, holding on to Malakai’s arms, prickled. I let go of them, but he still didn’t let go of me.  “Talk to me, Scotch.”  After a few moments, my stiffened back relaxed into his chest. I let everything pour out.

I looked down at my thumbnails as they smoothed over the peachy, smooth paint of the other.  “Scotch.”  I shook my head and swiped at my streaming eyes with rough irritation. “No. No, don’t try to make me feel better, Kai. I don’t need you to do that. I hooked up with my best friend’s boyfriend—what kind of person does that? And then I ran away and hid. You were right when you called me a hypocrite. I think that’s why it stung so much. Like, who am I to give advice when I’m capable of that?”  “Kiki.”  I stayed still, my frantic words sapping all my kinetic energy, falling out of my mouth. “I should have known better. I’m full of shit, Kai.”  “Kiki, I want to look at you when I say this. . . . Will you look at me?”  I sighed, then hoisted myself around so I faced him, legs folded over his thighs. I was expecting to see something like judgment trying hard not to be judgment, but he was looking at me with a nectar-gilded determination, soft focus. He swiped a thumb across my cheek, before running his knuckles down the side of my face, bending his head slightly, ensuring my gaze was locked into his.  “You’re not full of shit, Scotch. You were going through something and you’re human. It wasn’t a hookup. That prick knew you were vulnerable, and he took advantage of you.”  “I know, but I shouldn’t have—”  While Malakai’s eyes shone steel, it was mellowed by concern-creased brows. He reached to clasp my wrists, his grasp firm but tender.  “Don’t do that, Scotch. No buts. Would you say that if someone had written to your show? Would you have told them that they should have known better? No. You would call Nile a manipulative predator.” Malakai paused, and his eyes glinted with anger and sweetness, sugared quartz. “And you would be right. . . . I’m really sorry that happened to you. You didn’t deserve that. No one deserves that. You see that, right?”  I swallowed, his words helping to clear a mental fog that obscured the truth. “Yeah. Yeah, I do, thanks Kai, I just . . . it was confusing. That whole situation made me feel so out of control. And I spent that summer afterward trying to get it back. I’d actually got into an internship that summer. It was pretty prestigious and competitive and once you were in, you were in. You could go back there for grad opportunities. It started in July and the plan was to work at my dad’s restaurant up until then. He was still at the hospital with my mum a lot and he was stressed. My little sister was staying with my aunt and our cousins for the summer, so this was a way I could help. But when the time came, I just couldn’t go. After everything that happened and losing like . . . all my friends, I just wasn’t in the right head space. The internship felt foreign, I guess. Scary, suddenly. I felt safe working at the restaurant. I kind of just wanted to hide.”  I took a fortifying breath. Malakai’s thumb swirled on my wrist lightly in a tactile cypher that my pulse translated as “I’m here.”  “Anyway, while I was working shifts, these really cool Lagos babes would come in every Sunday. They were a group of friends spending summer in London. They used to talk loudly about their dating life. Give each other advice, that sort of thing. They tipped well. Once, they caught me listening. Or more like, once they saw me roll my eyes at something a Wasteman did to one of them. They asked me my opinion on the situation and I gave it.  “Apparently my advice worked and they liked it, because they started bringing me in every week on their dating lives. It was like having friends again. It inspired me to create Brown Sugar. I couldn’t make things right with Rianne, so the least I could do was stop guys doing what Nile did to the both of us—pulling friends apart. I wanted Brown Sugar to be a place where girls could feel powerful. And the music is the ultimate company. Songs about love and lust and loss. It speaks. It connects. I wanted to connect. Make people feel less alone.”  Malakai’s gaze was so full of warmth it made my skin prickle and I pushed out a coy “Corny, I know—”  He shook his head. “No, Scotch.” He looked like he wanted to say more but he left me space to speak. I held it close to me. It gave me courage to continue.  “Um, I still didn’t trust myself to be involved, to make friends. Aminah and I became friends by accident within the first week of uni and I’m so glad, otherwise I would have had no one. I was so scared I’d mess up . . . but I think I’ve overcorrected and numbed myself to the point where I’ve turned myself into some kind of heartless, weird, judgmental robotic freak.” I thought about what Shanti and Chioma had said, that they’d thought I was judging them, that I was better than them.  Malakai tugged at a twist that straggled from the high bun tangled on the top of my head. “Kiki, the first time I spoke to you, outside them lifts, I felt like I’d been electrocuted.”  “Hmm—”  “Not in a robotic freak way.” Malakai grinned. “Your energy grabbed me by the throat. You’re electric. Like lightning. Bright with it. Bold with it.”  His eyes caressed my face like the flutter of a butterfly wing. “You care so much. You feel so much. So if you’re a robot, you’re one of them robots that everyone is scared will overthrow humans one day because they’re so emotionally sophisticated. If you’re a robot you’re a really sexy despotic one.”  I laughed, and the action further loosened the already slackened tension in my chest. Frightening, how he knew how to do that. When to do that. Merciful, how he knew how to do that, when to do that.  I smiled up at him. “Thank you for thinking that I’m a hot megalomanic android. And thanks for like, um, being you enough to make this feel as easy as it does.” For being a soft landing.  “Hey.” He lifted up my hand and gently chucked my chin with our entwined hands, his gaze finding a new latch in mine to click into. “Scotch. I got you.”  I smiled shyly, straightened, then exhaled deeply through the bloom of heat that rushed through me, my voice intentionally light as I said, “Netflix and trauma. So, how does the wet mascara look around my eyes?”  “Peng. Shall we take a picture for the socials? Let the people know about the sexy night the Campus It Couple is having—”  “Yeah, which filter erases the look of emotional evisceration?”  “Alcohol. There’s that bottle left.”  “Let’s do it. . . . Oh, by the way, since we’re doing confessions, did I tell you that I think I’m friends with Shanti and Chioma now?” I reached for his television remote to unpause Eddie Murphy.  Malakai spluttered on his room-temperature mug wine. “What? You couldn’t lead with that?”  “Well, I’d just witnessed a very intense father-son confrontation.”  “What you just told me is way more stressful.”

And so it went, flowing back and forth together with satiny ease until he walked me home. We held hands the whole tipsy way through the forested path to my halls, the delicate moonlight and brazen campus lights finding love and making a home on Malakai’s silk-over-marble face. I wasn’t sure who picked up whose hand, all I knew was that we were holding each other’s for no reason.  At the door to my halls, Malakai still didn’t let go. We talked like we did, laughed like we did, and he didn’t let go. When an errant yawn from me alerted us to the fact that it was three A.M., he laughed and murmured, “Sweet dreams, Scotch.”  It was a self-fulfilling prophecy, because that night I would close my eyes and think about how he’d said that before he squeezed my hand and I pulled him into a hug and his arms pinned me so close I could feel his heart racing through his sweatshirt. His face fit into the crook of my neck like it belonged, his nose brushing up against the skin between my collarbone and throat, eliciting a spark in my heart and between my legs. He released me so slowly, like he was giving something up by doing so. His hand dragged currents across mine as he surrendered it, palm to fingers to tips, before lifting my hand so his lips could graze my knuckles like a feather on fire before finally letting it go, because no kissing. I’d said no kissing. I couldn’t remember why anymore.  Chapter 19


Saturday morning of the following week, I was awoken by an aggressive buzzing sound. I hauled myself up on the bed and picked up my phone to be informed of two things:

1. It was nine A.M., far too early for any normal human being to be calling  on a Saturday morning. 2. Malakai was not a normal human being. Deep down, I might have  known that already.

 We were both at FreakyFridayz the night before, and we’d only got in five hours ago. He should have been as tired as I was. I rubbed my eyes and blinked at the caller ID for a few moments to establish that I was indeed seeing what I thought I was before picking up.  I groaned. “Why?”  Malakai ignored my warm greeting. “Aroa, Shangaya.”  I frowned into the morning sunlight streaming into my room. “What? Are you still drunk? Why are you saying ‘good morning’ to me in Fekonia? Are you that much of a Reigns geek now that you’re speaking the language? Ugh, I’ve created a monster—”  “Come to your window.”  “Mate, if this is a Rapunzel situation, my braids are tied up with a headscarf. The lifts in this building work fine,” I replied, already scrambling up off my bed, walking to my third story window by my desk, and squinting against the autumn light, curiosity and excitement propelling me.  “Can you just— I’m tryna do a ting. Can you let me do the ting?”  I laughed. “Okay, I get that being my fake boyfriend means you gotta try to be romantic, but I think Romeo and Juliet roleplay is a bit much. Particularly as they were both just basically horny idiots who—”  I stopped as I spotted Malakai in the courtyard between the student hall buildings. He was Niyo. Well, he was dressed as Niyo. He must have hit up the seamstress aunties in Eastside because somehow he’d got the deep scarlet material needed for the cloak that Niyo wore in the book. Niyo’s cloak had ancient celestial characters written on them—Malakai had re- created them by cutting out and sticking some black material to the cloth, following the patterns in the book. It wasn’t perfect, but it was an impressive attempt, particularly for someone who, I’m pretty sure, had never watched Project Runway before.  He was wearing crisp white trousers from what looked like half of a traditional Yoruba outfit, sokoto,  ̣the precise kind that Niyo was described as wearing. He also happened to be topless. This made sense for Niyo, who existed in a tropical fictional ethereal universe, but not for Malakai, who was in a southern town in England. It was about twelve degrees. It must have been uncomfortable for him, but I was grateful for the choice. It allowed me to see, with clarity, his gold chain glinting on the deep brown of his chest, mimicking the protective amulet his character wore, but more importantly, gave me full view of his lightly defined six pack, which, though not specially acquired for the occasion, I appreciated anyway. His skin was deep and smooth and glinted in the morning light, a sight for sleep-addled eyes, and just like that, I was alert, energetic like I’d had ten hours of sleep. He had sprayed his hair gold, in homage to the fact that in the story, Niyo’s curls had been fashioned from sunbeams. All of this combined to somehow amp up his already unbearable levels of sexy.  I bit my lip. “Malakai . . .” My voice was a whisper. “What are you doing?”  I saw him shrug. “We’re going to RomCon. I found tickets on the black market. Kidding. I took the wedding photos for this guy who works in the marketing department of a ticket company, and he said I could shout him for tickets whenever. Turns out they’re doing the tickets for this event. Our train leaves in an hour and a half, by the way. I got you slices of Tottenham cake for the journey.”  I couldn’t breathe. “Kai, you serious?”  “I mean, I didn’t bake them. I definitely got them from the bakery last night, so they might be a little stale.”  “Not the cake. I mean, yes, the cake but also the trip. . . . Kai, it’s too much!”  His voice was easy, jovial. “Oh. You think this is for you? I have a bunch of books that need signing.”  I snorted and my eyes misted. Something in my chest swelled. I felt like I was being lifted by the sheer force of the butterfly wings batting within me. “I can see your nipples from here. Could take an eye out.”  “Yeah, it’s cold as fuck. They can double as weapons since I didn’t have time to make his lightning staff. I’m gonna wear a T-shirt on the way there, but I just needed you to get the full effect. I also got a nose ring.”  I pressed my forehead against the window and Malakai titled his head, angling it in a dramatic pose and, sure enough, I saw the tiny glimmering sliver of Niyo’s characteristic thin silver piercing. “Incredible.”  “It’s definitely going to turn my nostril green. Worth it, though. I look sexy. Tupac is in Cuba, shaking. Be honest, does the gold hair make me look like Sisqo?”  “I don’t know. Do ‘Thong Song’ for me right quick?”  When Malakai did, immediately bursting into the chorus, clutching his fist, I snorted. “Yes. It’s cute, though.”  Malakai’s grin competed with the autumn sun, and instantly I was overwhelmed with an unidentifiable force that was strong enough to cause me to hang up, grab my key, and rush out of my flat braless, in my crop top, jersey booty shorts, and slippers, outside into the crisp November air and jump onto a surprised Malakai, who apparently had been trying to call me back. I threw my arms around his neck, buried my face into it.  Malakai was only momentarily surprised; his arms instantly circled my body, pulling me to him, almost lifting me up, my T-shirt hitching a little, so my skin was against his skin. It was cold, but at this contact, heat seared through me, made my pulse whirr. As we pulled slightly away, our rapid exhalations misted up and mingled in the tiny space between us; our arms stayed around each other.  “Kai, I don’t know what to say. This is one of the sweetest things anyone has ever done for me. I can’t believe you’re standing in front of me in cosplay right now.”  Malakai’s dark eyes shone and he was doing a shitty job at hiding the bashful grin spreading across his face. “I’m kinda into it, you know. I think I pull this ’fit off.”  It was true. It was kind of scary, actually. He looked exactly how I imagined Niyo to look: regally handsome, kind.  “But,” he continued, “as you know, Niyo is nothing without Shangaya. According to my calculations you have forty minutes to get dressed. I already know you have your outfit. You ready, my Fireflower?”  I did already have my outfit. His use of Niyo’s pet name for Shangaya made me smile. “I don’t think I’m ever going to get used to you going full nerd on me. But”—I released him, and started backing my way toward my halls—“that ain’t the question. The question is, are you ready for me as Shangaya?”  Malakai raised an eyebrow as he followed me into my building, shooting me a slanted smirk as he murmured, “Oh. Rah. You think you got it like that, Scotch?”  “Nah,” I said, adopting Malakai’s own swagger and mimicking his self- assured tone of the night we kissed. “I know.”

“Are you sure you got that on camera?” I stared at the message in my copy of The Reign of Ifekonia: Search for the Sun, eyes blurred and wide.  Malakai grinned at me from across the café table and nodded. “Yes, Scotch, for the one-hundredth time, I have the film of Idan Fadaka signing your copy.”  “And the bit where she froze when I said my name and said it sounded familiar? When she said she remembers me from a panel she was on last year, because my question was so—what were the words she used?”  Malakai’s smile widened. “‘Incisive and thoughtful.’”  “Incisive and thoughtful. And then what happened? Just to verify—”  “She said you made a beautiful Shangaya.”  “Oh my God, Kai. I know I’m being annoying, but I can’t believe today happened!”  Malakai shook his head, the movement somehow making the twinkle in his eyes glint sharper.  “Not annoying. I love seeing you like this.”  “Nerdy?”  “Yes.”  I threw a sugar sachet at him and he caught it with a hand, laughed. “And happy.”  We’d been at the convention for half a day and it had been packed with panels and talks that Malakai was surprisingly engaged in, following me to every discussion that caught my interest, excitement and giddiness bouncing me all over the place. Malakai, it turned out, was the belle of the ball, his sharp beauty and height coupling well with his costume and character. He drew flirtatious stares and requests for photos, and Malakai, ever the ethereal prince, was always pleasantly game, smiling bright for each snap, accepting each compliment with grace and enthusiastically talking about his character. When I went to meet him in the convention center corridor after visiting the ladies’, another Shangaya was talking to him, braided wig flipping over her shoulder as he handed her back her phone. My stomach swung low at the sight, breath moving stilted through my throat, irritated that I felt this way. I defaulted to the sacred chants I’d been using to pull myself together recently.  Malakai and I are friends.  This is a project.  Malakai does not like me in that way.  Malakai and I flirt because flirting is part of our friendship DNA.  Yes, we had that . . . moment the other night, but it probably just happened because we were both feeling vulnerable.  I decided to evolve the lengthy, clumsy, unpoetic chants for the occasion.  And he isn’t even here in the capacity of my fake boyfriend; he’s here in the capacity of friend. We are outside of the jurisdiction of the project, and he is free to do whatever he wants.  Just because he is dressed as my literary crush and therefore the literal embodiment of many an erotic fantasy, doesn’t mean I can project.  Fuck, why is he so cute?  Malakai caught my eye and smiled, and the chants became undone, because sure, we weren’t together but did he really have to be so bold about flirting with someone in my presence? I felt like it lacked some couth, it wasn’t cute, and actually, fine, yes, I was jealous. Maybe it was because of the roles we were playing today, but how would he have liked it if I was all over another Niyo in front of his face?  My steps stuttered like my pulse did, and I slowed as it sped up. I waited until she left before forcing out a breezy smile. It didn’t feel breezy upon release, however; it felt like a fucking gale force, a prelude to a storm.  “So, was that another Shangaya trying to taste your forever?”  Shit. I immediately wanted to pluck the words from the air and stuff them back into my mouth. My cheeks burned. I had been quoting the book but I belatedly realized how wrong it sounded and unfortunately that wrongness mitigated my already questionable breeziness. I had all the easy breeziness of a hurricane.  Malakai shot me a slightly bemused look. “I don’t know about that, but she did ask me for my ProntoPic handle.”  I nodded and smiled wider, like the chill, carefree, unbothered girl I was, clamping my jaws down to contain the clump of aorta that had made its way to my mouth. The rest of my heart sunk down to the pits of my stomach, squashing all the butterflies.  “Uh-huh. That’s, you know . . . ” I laughed, putting my hand on my hip to further denote casualness. When I realized it probably made me look like a stern auntie, I dropped it. “What’s cool about this kind of place and what I personally love for you and for everyone else, including myself”—Why couldn’t I talk like a regular human being? What was wrong with me? Oh God, was I having a stroke? A jealousy induced stroke?—“is that you get to meet so many interesting new people.”  Malakai shrugged. “Yeah. I guess. But when I told her I had a girl she didn’t want my handle anymore, so—”  I blinked. “You told her you had a girl? Why?”  Malakai looked bemused. “I told you I’d act as if we’re in a real relationship and that’s what I’m going to do. Do you want churros? I saw a pop-up churro stand somewhere.”  I added more chants.  Malakai’s just method. He’s focusing on the role of Boyfriend for our mutual academic success.  Ignore the butterflies. They’re dumb and brainless and metaphorical.  It’s probably a gastronomical issue.  I consume a lot of sugar and dairy.  Crushing on Malakai is as fruitful as crushing on Niyo.

As we sat down and gorged on hot churros, I felt like I was floating, like I’d acquired the powers of the character I was dressed up as. My costume was much more subdued than Malakai’s—he’d chosen the most extreme version of his character to embody. Mine was a slick patent pleather coat that fell so it hemmed the heel of combat boots, high-waisted leather leggings, and a black crop top. My eyebrows were extra arched, deep black, framed with amber-like, stick-on gems, my lips painted wine, eye shadow earth reds and sunsets. The costume had a placebo effect on me, making me feel all powerful, all capable, and completely satisfied. Malakai’s eyes brushed mine in a slight sweep.  “You really do make a beautiful Shangaya.”  I swallowed my smile. “Thanks, mate.”  Maybe if I verbally reminded myself that we were just friends, it would be easier to kill my crush. I cleared my throat. “When do our interviewees arrive?”  I’d got the idea to film at the convention—even though we were technically out of the physical remit for the film, I thought we could find a couple our age to interview, add a new dimension to the documentary. Malakai was immediately into it and picked out a couple while queuing for our churros. He’d got chatting with a guy, who was brought to RomCon by his girlfriend, and who, apparently, had been instructed to order the exact same coffee specification that I like, for her.  “Any second now. I think this one will be good; it’s a dope idea to interview here, Scotch. It’s so weird that his girlfriend likes the exact same kind of coffee-scented syrup like you, though—”  “First of all, shade noted and ignored. Second of all, I know, right? I wonder what else we’ll have in common. Do you think she’s also in a relationship to boost campus radio show ratings?” I muttered playfully.  “Chances are high. That’s a pretty common relationship model. We ain’t that special.” Malakai’s gaze shifted; he nodded at something just beyond my head, grinning. “And here they are now—”  “See! He’s dressed up! Why couldn’t you dress up?” The girlfriend’s voice was teasing as she approached.  “Didn’t want to steal your shine, baby.” Her boyfriend’s retort was shot out smoothly before he theatrically, comedically, lowered his voice— presumably in the direction of Malakai. “I thought I told you to change before we got here? Man’s showing me up.”  Malakai laughed. “Sorry, bro, but I’m feeling it.”  Malakai had got up, his default, easy manner radiating off him as he welcomed them. I, however, found myself glued to my seat, the multiple layers of leather sitting with a new weight on my skin, my mouth dry, chest twisted tight. The girlfriend’s voice had an unmistakable familiarity, one that tugged and unraveled compacted memories, pulled at an unholy mix of sadness and inexplicable joy, an old, sophomoric, naive joy, the one that came with memories of learning a dance from a Beyoncé video on YouTube, secretly getting our belly buttons pierced together and perfecting our coffee orders together through trial and error before sipping them through straws as we strolled through our local mall on Saturdays. I had trained myself to feel nothing and now I found myself frozen by the avalanche of emotions that I’d forced away.  “Scotch,” Malakai was saying, gesturing to me. “This is Amari and . . .” He faltered as he saw the expression on my face.  I wrenched myself up, turning to face our interviewees, and confirmed what I already knew.  “Rianne.”  The girl’s wry smile dissolved instantly. “Kiki?”  Malakai’s eyes popped open as he looked back and forth between us. “Oh. Oh, fuck.” The boyfriend just looked confused.  Rianne hadn’t changed that much. She had the same beauty. Her nose was pierced now, like mine was, and her loose curls were left natural, buoyant around her face. Her dress was deep blue and skimmed her curves to the floor. She was dressed as Yoa, subduer of the waters, Shangaya’s mortal-enemy-turned-ally-turned-friend. I felt like I was going to faint.  She turned to the boys, who were stood still, unsure what to do as they looked on, trying to figure out if they were in the midst of war. All I knew was that I had an instant stress stomachache. I was going to pass out.  “Hey . . . can we have a few minutes, please? If you don’t mind.” She directed the last part at me.  Malakai turned to me, eyes horrified; he pulled me aside, lowering his voice. “Kiki, I had no idea, I swear. I am so sorry. We can just drop this. . . . Are you okay?”  I shook my head slowly, feeling stunned. “Of course you had no idea.” I glanced at Rianne, who was watching us. “I think I have to talk to her. I’ll be fine.”  Malakai reached out to gently squeeze my elbow before nodding at Amari and finding a table nearby. “It’s good to see you, Kiki. Here of all places.” Rianne’s smile was so forced it was perplexing. “I mean, I guess it makes sense if we think about it. We were obsessed with those books at school. Do you remember when we used to spend ages on those fanfic sites? God, how did we manage to pretend we were cool?” I exhaled deeply and rubbed the bridge of my nose. Then it was as if I erupted. “Rianne, what do you want? Like, what was the friend request about? Why are you tagging me in old pictures? Why are you acting like we’re just two old friends catching up right now? Is this some kind of weird extended revenge plan, because I am sorry, and I said it then and I’m saying it now. I just—” I was speaking faster now, trying to get words to outrun the tears I felt burgeoning, stinging my eyes. “I’m sorry, I was drunk and then he was giving me more alcohol and then before I knew it, I—” It took me a while to realize that Rianne was shaking her head frantically, her own eyes glistening. She reached out and grabbed my wrist. “K, K . . . Fuck. I’m so sorry.” Wait, what? “That’s why I sent the friend request, that’s why I tagged you in that picture. I just didn’t know how to reach out to you. I’ve been so ashamed. I acted really, really badly—” “Rianne, I get it.” “No. No. I was wrong. I should have heard you out. But Nile had this hold on me, you know? He told me that you’d been after him for a while, and I was an idiot not to have seen it. He was a manipulative prick, Kiki. He’s the one that told me to block you and, I don’t know, he just had this way of making me feel like I was an idiot. We went out for maybe two, three months after that, and I really lost myself. And, at first, yeah, I was so, so pissed at you. But inside it never made sense to me. You wouldn’t do that.” “Ri . . . I was really drunk and he got me even drunker, and he was saying all this stuff and before I knew it, we were kissing, or he was kissing me, and then I pushed him off but he kept— I swear I pushed him off.” Rianna’s hold on my wrist tightened; her eyes were shiny. “Stop. I know. I know. You don’t have to rehash this for me, I promise. His version didn’t make sense. I kept asking him what exactly had happened and he would get so mad, so I’d drop it. One time, we were having some argument about a cheating rumor—that turned out to be true, by the way—and he goes, ‘Fuck, why was I even loyal to you when Kiki tried it with me? I should have let her keep going. She was better with her tongue than you anyway.’ Then, it was like something clicked. Like I’d been under some fucking spell and it had broken.  “I thought about the way he acted with me and alcohol and put two and two together. And I knew. Fuck, Kiki, I have been feeling so sick about how I treated you. And you were going through so much and I was so selfish. I let him get between us. . . . I’m really, really, sorry.” Her voice broke.  I flipped her hand so it was in mine. The relief I felt at her words, her understanding, was soured by the nausea that rose at the thought of what she must have experienced with him—the anger at what he’d taken from us. Taking a deep breath, I squeezed her hand. “Ri, it’s okay. He messed with both of us. I’m just glad that you got away from him.”  Rianne’s eyes filled further. “There were so many times I wanted to call you. I wrote so many messages that ended up being deleted before I sent them. Our breakup really sucked for me, K.”  I swallowed, but still the words barely made it out of my throat. “Yeah. It really fucking hurt for me too. I think it made me lose my mind a bit, to be honest.”  “Same. I totally understand if you hate me.”  The nausea receded. “What? Ri, whatever happens you’re always going to mean a lot to me. I love you. I didn’t stop.”  The tears spilled over from Rianne’s eyes and she squeezed my hand back. “I love you too, K. Can we like . . . start over, maybe?”  “I’d really like that.”  Rianne and I had grown and all the places we used to fit into one another had been filled or had evolved, the gaps sealed. We might not ever be best friends again, but there was potential there. Hope. And now that we’d cleared away the debris of the past, we had access to the memories we’d created together and we could build something new on that foundation.  “I can’t believe we’re dressed as Shangaya and Yoa, sobbing at a convention center coffee shop,” I muttered as I drew a paper napkin from the silver dispenser on the table and dabbed the edges of my eyes with it.  Rianne snorted as she swiped beneath her eyes with her thumbs. “Yeah, I know, man. Although when you think about it, it’s pretty poetic. Also, speaking of coffee, I should have known it was you when I met a guy whose girlfriend had the same order as me. Does your man take the piss out of it too?”  “Yeah. A serious lack of taste.” “Except when it comes to us.” I snorted. “Obviously.”




 [Untitled_Love.Doc]

 Director, producer: Malakai Korede

 Consulting Producer/Interviewer: Kiki Banjo

 Interviewees: Rianne Tucker and Amari Kamau KIKI: What drew you to your partner? RIANNE: So, I was about a year out of what I now realize was a pretty emotionally abusive relationship. I lost . . . important things to me. Including myself. I made bad decisions. I was pretty fucked up from it, not gonna lie. I had trust issues, intimacy issues—all of it. I didn’t date for my entire first year of uni. Like, at all. Anyway, I went away to work at this summer school in Kenya. When I got there, all the aunties kept on saying that I needed to meet the other British uni student working there, that we’d get along so well. He was on a short break in South Africa. The kids kept on saying that I was their second favorite teacher after Mr. Kamau. That really pissed me off—I mean, me, second best? I hate competition! KIKI: I know the feeling. Especially with a man. Gross. RIANNE:Right? And I gave them lollipops! AMARI: That’s bribery, babe. So as soon as I return, everyone’s telling me that I need to meet Rianne. The kids are telling me she looks like a princess, the aunties have already started buying their wedding hats—it’s a lot of pressure, but then I meet her and bruv, I’m done for. Gone. Obviously, she’s gorgeous, but she was also great with the kids, just so kind and patient. RIANNE:Amari came and I’m like okay, fine, fuck, he’s a bit of me. You know my type, K—don’t he look like my type? That other prick wasn’t my type, but Amari? Yeah, it’s like you built him. You always said your type KIKI: was rap with a dash of R&B and a sprinkle of soul. RIANNE: Exactly. He’s like the embodiment of that. Sweet, sexy, kind. Everyone was happy around him. He brought joy to any room. It’s just that I wasn’t in the right mindset. I went there to work. At first, I barely spoke to him— AMARI: Well, there was that time you said “excuse me” on your way to the bathroom at a bar during a staff social. I remember that because the guys asked me if I needed a glass of water. RIANNE: This is the thing, I knew that if I talked to you, I wouldn’t want to stop. I was scared of that. One day I caught him filling up the cookie jar in the staff room with my favorite kind. I always wondered why we never ran out of them, and then I realized. KIKI: Why didn’t you initiate conversation, Amari? AMARI: So, I’m usually a confident guy. I never struggled with babes before, RIANNE: Chill. AMARI:But with this situation I just sensed . . . that I should wait. Wait till it felt like she wanted me to speak. But even without speaking, we connected. We made fun of the same things. I know because we would clock things at the same time and immediately find each other’s eyes. You know that feeling? At first, I thought they were trying to hook us up because we’re the only two Brits, right? But it was more than that. Well, we were the only Black Brits. There were a couple white English people but the Kenyans weren’t huge fans. Can I say that on here? They were just doing way too much—you know, one of them was wearing an Africa pendant. RIANNE:That’s actually how we got together. We were just sitting with each other in the staff room while I was scrolling my phone, in silence, when the guy with the Africa pendant came in. It was the first time we’d seen it. He was real posh, on a “gap yah,” talking about how he couldn’t wait to tell his friends back in the UK that he’d found a new spiritual home, and that didn’t we feel so connected to nature out here, like in a real, base, animalistic sense. And the entire time, he kept touching that fucking pendant. It was so bait that he wanted us to say something. To compliment him. Anyway, as soon as he left, we bust out laughing. Like howled. Then, Amari goes — AMARI: “If I steal it for you, would you get a beer with me?” RIANNE: And I go, “He probably sleeps with it on.” Amari says that that just makes things more interesting. [Rianne grins and plucks a gold necklace out from beneath her neckline] AMARI [grinningback]: Reparations. RIANNE:But honestly, even without him stealing from a man who used to speak in some beg “African accent” that  sounded like a hate crime—  AMARI: I think it was a hate crime.  RIANNE:I would have gone on a date with him. What I liked  about him is that he didn’t force anything. He gave us the  space to happen.  AMARI: But it was mostly the jewelry, right?  RIANNE: What can I say? I’m a gold digger.


The next morning, I was woken up early by a stream of dawn flowing into a room that was not mine but felt as safe as my space. I found myself warm, secured against a chest that was rising and falling softly against my back, Malakai’s sweet tiger-cub snores the only sound in the room.  After we got back from the convention and changed, Malakai ordered Sweetest Ting to his place, where we indulged while watching old R&B videos, discussing the logistical issues of pleading for a woman on a street in the rain. It got late and our words slowed. I was already curled into his bed and Malakai offered to sleep on the floor, but I told him not to be silly, that it wasn’t necessary, I trusted him. Then he’d offered to put a pillow between us and I’d said that it was cool, that it wasn’t necessary, I trusted him. Why did I trust myself?  Half-asleep, I’d moved back, body curved in a tentative question mark. He didn’t wake up, but he did respond, shifting closer to me, his breath tickling the nape of my neck. It felt too natural, too easy, too comfortable. The reasons around the comfort felt like they would be hot to touch, that they could burn, so I left it alone, but the comfort itself warmed me so I let myself settle in it.  I was lying there in joggers and little else. During the night I had removed my cropped sweater to reveal my bright pink bralette. Malakai was shirtless but had kept his own joggers on too. I could feel his heart ticking away against my shoulder blade. When I reached over to pull his arm around my waist, he immediately fastened on to me, shifting his other arm behind his pillow, pulling me in closer, his lips just below my lobe.  “Scotch.” His voice was drowsy, delectable hot honey rumbling through my ear and directly to my core.  I swallowed, suddenly uncertain. “Should I go?”  “Do you want to?”  “No.”  “Then I don’t want you to.”  Then his lips were nipping at my ear, sending a shiver through the delightful loophole of our no-kissing rule. I was moving back against him and I could feel the depression and extension of his bare chest against my back, agitating my heart rate further, a throb that dropped below my waist as it rotated in a rhythm that he immediately, excruciatingly, matched. His hardness spoke directly to my softness and turned me molten in the places where it mattered. Malakai’s teeth scraped the soft part of my lobe, tugging it with a tender surety.  I felt myself becoming feral.  I swivelled under his arm to face him and, fuck, dawn suited him, landed sweet on him, and the narrow column of new sun made the blaze in his focus more intense. My stomach flipped, my pulse skipped, my breath tripped. His too-respectful hand remained on the incline of my waist, his thumb searing circles into my skin. I was just about to ask What is this, what is happening, what have we started? when I saw a glimmer of something cross his face, a flash of something, something like— apprehension? It sent a nervous knot into my stomach despite the tie between us winding tauter and tighter by the second.  Malakai held my gaze, in a space I couldn’t figure out the dimensions of, face inscrutable. His thumb stopped its hypnotic circuit on my hip. Then he removed his hand from my waist, dragged his knuckles down the side of my face, and said, “Uh, actually . . .”  Heat fled my body. “Oh.”  He swallowed. “Maybe this isn’t a good idea, what with your project and the film and us working together. It might confuse things—”  “Of course. Totally. You’re right.”  I swiftly got up, grabbing for a sweater that wasn’t where I thought it was. Was it possible to die of embarrassment? I was sure it was happening. I was about to die in a fucking hot pink bralette. At least it made my tits look great. Not great enough for Malakai to want to kiss on them, though. Would he speak at my funeral? Sweet girl, he would say with a tasteful glimmer in his eye. But I just wasn’t into her like that.  Malakai sat up, and the soft apologetic crease between his eyes felt like hands tightening around my throat. He ran a hand across his head. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to . . .” He trailed off, as if lost for words.  Didn’t mean to what? Have me feeling like I would go insane if I didn’t have his mouth on me? I almost laughed. Instead, I fished my sweater from under the covers. “Oh my gosh, please don’t worry. I’m sorry.” I pulled it over my head and got up. “I shouldn’t even have . . . It’s cool. And you’re right. It would have been a bad idea. A terrible idea.”  “Kiki.”  I shoved my feet into my shoes and grabbed my phone and key card, still searching inside for my dignity, feeling around for the shape of it. I grasped at something with its semblance, crossing the room, where I turned to face him, my hand curved around the cool of the metal door handle. Malakai’s hand flew to the back of his head; he looked like he felt bad, like he felt sorry, and I hated it. I wished his rejection was more brittle; it would have been easier for me to cut it cleanly from me. But this, whatever this irritatingly soft thing was, was clinging on to me, tacking on to my fingers as I attempted to peel it off. It was more brutal.  “Erm . . . we’re still on for this weekend at Ty’s, right?”  In my mortified haze, I replied something like, “Yeah! Sure!”—too light and garishly bright, like cheap jewelry. I know I blurted something about an early seminar we both knew I didn’t have before running back to my halls, as fast as my Ugg knockoffs would allow me to.  Chapter 20


“What’s up with her today? She didn’t stay up long enough to give us a break down of all the Missy Elliot productions between 1995 and 2005.” Shanti’s wry husk flowed through my sleep-addled brain from up front in the driver’s seat of Mimi the Mini Cooper (christened after Mariah, Shanti informed us).  “Oh, she and Newbie had a fight or something. They’ll figure it out. I mean it’s not like he did cosplay for bants. He’s into my sis,” Aminah’s voice piped up from beside me. My mind was still too muddled to refute this. I hadn’t told Aminah the details but she was Aminah enough to detect that something was off and not to push it until I was ready.  I slowly blinked my eyes open behind the oversized sunglasses I’d slipped on to keep the sharp winter sun from them. And to hide my puffy, sleep-deprived eyes.  Shanti shrugged as she smoothly switched lanes on the motorway so we were in the right lane to turn off toward Ty’s country house. “He better not fuck this up with her. Somehow I know it was his fault.”  Chioma turned and reached back for the box of doughnuts situated between Aminah and I. “Which one is vegan? The Pistachio White Chocolate? Cool.” She picked one up. “Yeah, probably. Man, boys are idiots.”  Aminah hummed. “Tell me about it. Yesterday Kofi was moaning about the fact that I called him bro in front of his boys at FreakyFridayz. He was all, ‘Minah, I ain’t tryna be your bro. Why you tryna play me like that?’ Play you like what? ‘Bro’ is a neutral term of endearment.”  Shanti snorted. “Yeah, not gonna lie, I’m with Kof on this one. ‘Bro’ is the kiss of death.”  Chi cackled. “Do you hate his guts, Aminah? There are kinder ways to let him down.”  “Meenz,” I said, fully awake now. “I can’t lie—that’s pretty savage.” I stretched and pushed my sunglasses up to look at her. “But then you’re probably freaked out a little by how much you like him, so you called him bro to distance yourself from your own feelings.”  Aminah raised a brow. “Oh. She’s alive? Where were you at FreakyFridayz, hmm? Maybe if you were there you could have an opinion.”  I dipped into what was left of the box of doughnuts. “I was tired.”  Aminah didn’t waste a second. “You were hiding.”  Aminah and Chioma stared at me. Shanti also pointedly glanced at me in the rearview mirror. I ignored them, and the truth, chewing slowly on my pistachio iced pastry.  Malakai and I had met at every FreakyFridayz by default for the past few weeks: it occurred seamlessly and whoever arrived first got the drinks and waited in our booth in the Cuffing Corner for the other to join. We would then people-watch, sip, talk, tease, or play our new favorite game—Which Celebrity Could You Feasibly Seduce?, in which we answered the titular question before breaking down how exactly it would occur. Our last round involved me and Trevante Rhodes at a house party (he would overhear me thoughtfully critiquing his last film and be intrigued) and in an impressive display of self-belief, Malakai’s fantasy saw him seducing Doja Cat, while he filmed her tour documentary.  I’d skipped yesterday’s FreakyFridayz, though, to recalibrate and to begin the work of convincing myself that what happened with Kai wasn’t a big deal. Not only was the rejection still too raw, but I was pretty certain Aminah would curse out Malakai’s entire lineage. Despite my humiliation, I didn’t think it was entirely fair that his great-grandchild be doomed to hideousness and a lack of rhythm just because he didn’t want to make out with me.  I exhaled and shifted uncomfortably in my seat. “I . . . we need space”— which was the truth. Aminah pressed her glossy lips together, arching her brows so high they met the rims of the Dior sunglasses perched on her head, but she said nothing.  I had no idea what I was supposed to do. Sustained space from Malakai was unfeasible at this time. Brown Sugar’s listeners were up by forty percent, and we were now the third most-listened-to show on campus. A few more weeks and it stood a chance at being number one, which would make my place on the program a shoo-in. There was also the guilty fact that Shanti and Chioma didn’t know the technicalities of my and Malakai’s relationship yet, something that had proved increasingly difficult the closer I got to them.  I swallowed. “I just want to get through this weekend, man. Linkups like these aren’t my thing and now Malakai and I are weird and—”  Shanti made a loud retching noise and glared at me through the rearview mirror. “No moaning in Mariah, unless it’s from me hooking up with a spice! Not only do you have us this weekend, you also have a footballer’s mansion with a hot tub.”  Aminah nodded. “Dassrite. We got tequila, you look cute, and Ty said in the group chat that we’re gonna do nineties and noughties karaoke, the era you’re the most annoying about—”  “And,” Chioma’s voice fizzed, “I made vegan brownies last night. They’re in the boot.”  Chioma sighed into the silence. “Weed brownies, guys—”  A woop, a holler, and a Why didn’t you say so? whipped the air in Mimi into a joyful frenzy that jolted through me and slid over the unease I felt about Malakai. I was going to a social event with a group of girls for the first time in a long time, and in the place of the stomach-tightening trepidation I expected came a thrum of warm comfort. I didn’t want to climb out of my skin or burrow myself further into it. I felt safe within it, with these three girls.  I laughed. “You’re right. My bad. Sorry for being a downer. Killa Keeks officially activated for the weekend.”  “There she is!” Aminah grinned.  The girls’ trills escalated as I connected my phone to the Bluetooth and selected a Destiny’s Child classic. “And she is feeling,” the beginning disparate twangs of the song filled the car, before we simultaneously shout- screamed, “So good!” A song title, a proclamation. We dove into the lyrics, punctuated by giddy giggles, hair flicks, and a lot of pointing as we informed an invisible nemesis that we were doing mighty fine. “Lads, the QUEENS have arrived! Make yourself decent!” Ty’s muted voice bellowed through the wide doors of the stone farmhouse, a surprisingly elegant, nouveau riche–architectural concoction of both glass and stone, as they fell open and revealed his broad grin and handsome face. He was in his usual weather-ignorant attire of shorts and a T-shirt, an apron that read Mr. Good Lookin’ Is Cookin teetering on his broad torso.  While his father was a football star, Ty was an English-lit-studying, towering, bulked-out gentle Adonis who preferred chilling with his Blackwell crew to the chaotic raucousness of his rugby team, who were known to make jokes about the reason for his strength on the field. (He was Black! That was the joke.) His golden face glowed as he beckoned us into the warm amber crush of the house, scented with the expensive candles his mother owned, the faint aroma of BBQ, and a cocktail of colognes—within which Malakai’s, clean, inviting, and excruciating, rose to find me. My skin pricked.  “You’re the first squad to arrive.”  Squad. I was in a squad now. I waited for the anxiousness to find me. It didn’t. I smiled at Ty as he took off his backward-placed cap and bowed deeply before us.  “So glad the Blackwell Baddies are here to save me from these barbarians.”  I quirked a brow. “The Blackwell Baddies? Is that what we’re called now?”  “Well that’s what Shanti referred to you guys as when I asked what time you’d all be getting here.”  Ty was generous with his smile but he gave more of it to Shanti as he took in her cute, curve-hugging, pink athleisure co-ord. It was clear he wasn’t as concerned about our group’s arrival as he was about hers. She smirked and smoothed a hand over her sleek ponytail. “Our presence is a present—”  “Kiss your ass?” He paraphrased the end of the Kanye bar with a twinkle all of us caught.  Shanti’s response was an expertly cool gaze. She passed Ty her overnight bag. “Where does your dad keep his scotch? Don’t cheap out on me, Baptiste.”  She swayed past him, and Ty followed her through into his own house, entranced.  Aminah, Chi, and I were exchanging smirks when Kofi appeared with a tray of libations. “Welcome to the Château, ladies.” He nodded at Aminah as she took a tiny glass of clear liquid. “You alright, mate?”  Aminah almost choked on her shot, eyes wide at Kofi’s impressive pettiness, but he’d already turned to me. “Keeks, Malakai’s been in a mood since we got here. Whatever is going on with you lot, fix it. You don’t want to lose me in the custody battle.”  “Nothing is going . . .”  Malakai emerged from the wide hallway, and my words stumbled and fell down my throat at the sight of him in his basketball shorts and hoodie, the scruff on his jaw. His casual fineness was quite unconducive to my plan of extricating myself from my feelings. I hadn’t seen or spoken to him in a few days, and the shape of him instantly fell into a space I hadn’t known was there. I felt the inexplicable need to climb on him. His hand flew to the back of his head, his eyes soft, hesitant. I downed my shot, hoping the alcohol would push my heart back to its proper position.  Kofi gave me an unnecessarily pointed look before ushering everyone to the living room. When Malakai reached to take my overnight bag, our fingers brushed; a streak of heat shot through me. Unhelpfully, it seemed the other night had only made me more physically sensitive to him, a drop of water driving a parched desert wanderer rabid.  “Hi.” Probably detecting that I was a horny monster he stood back, for his safety.  I swallowed. “Yo.” Yo?  “You didn’t show up at FreakyFridayz last night.”  I shook my head. “I got caught up with work. My bad.”  He held my gaze and I held my breath, the quiet sitting awkwardly between us. Thankfully, somewhere in the house, the group started to play a game.  I raised a brow and forced myself to speak. “Did I just hear the words ‘tequila pong’? It’s twelve P.M.”  Malakai released a quarter smile. “You know how bars are open at six A.M. at the airport? That’s what this place is like. Time doesn’t exist. Anything goes. Ty’s already insisted on a barbeque, doesn’t give a fuck that it’s ten degrees. He’s calling this party the Blackwell Bacchanal. After I Googled ‘bacchanal’ I got kinda shook.”  The straightness of his face bypassed the tension and tickled a sexy snort out of me. His eyes sparked in surprise at my pig-in-heat giggle and his smile widened a little before he paused and took a half step closer to me. “Listen, I know this weekend might be a lot for you and it isn’t your thing, so if you ever wanna bow out or take a break, just shout me. I’ll make an excuse and we can go somewhere.”  The newly re-erected protective bars around my heart bucked and bent. He’d disarmed me so swiftly, I never saw it coming. I needed to see it coming.  “Thanks but I’m good. I got my girls. Besides this is a relationship- cementing outing. We have to be here together, because which self- respecting Blackwell woman leaves her man alone at a Ty Baptiste party? Especially if that man is Malakai Korede?” Something in Malakai’s eyes flickered and I cleared my throat. “I gotta play it smart.” I took my bag from his grip and stretched a smile on my face. “Go join them. I’ll drop this in the room.”  I tapped his arm in what I hoped was a casual and friendly manner and moved toward the stairs.  “Kiki.”  I didn’t turn around, focusing instead on the incredibly expensive-looking chandelier above me, my words rushing out, stumbling over themselves, clumsily stretching out tangled conclusions. “Malakai, it’s calm. No stress. You didn’t want to kiss me. And even if . . . a part of you wanted to kiss me, you changed your mind. You’re entitled to do that . . . physically wanting to kiss someone and mentally not wanting to are two different things, and I respect that. And I get it, because let’s face it, the reality of it . . . of me is messy.” I took a deep breath. “My ego is bruised, but that’s all it is. It was for the best, anyway. You don’t have to explain yourself.”  I didn’t think it was a terrible speech, considering. The main points were conveyed. I was above the drama and I was evolved enough to accept rejection. I would have got an easy pass if this was a seminar presentation.  Malakai cleared his throat. “I was gonna say that our room is the second on the right.”  I closed my eyes and willed the chandelier to fall on me. When it refused my command, I nodded in grim acceptance. “Noted. Thank you.”  I walked primly up the broad, spiraling staircase with the firm knowledge that I needed to get thoroughly drunk tonight. “Keep still.” I wound my arms around Malakai’s neck and hitched my legs tighter around his waist. His grunt reverberated through his chest to mine and his hands slipped under my legs for a firmer grip, but he continued hopping from one foot to the other. Our faces were inches apart, so close that our hot tequila-tainted breaths were mingling.  “The hell are you doing?”  “Warming up.” He decided to dip and stretch a leg with me still clamped on to his chest like a marmoset on a branch.  “It’s a race to the end of the room, where I have to direct a blindfolded you to a table that holds a shot of tequila that you have to pick up with your teeth and pour into my mouth without spilling it. You don’t need to warm up for that. Light work.”  Malakai smiled and even with the silk scarf I had used to tie around his eyes I could see the spark in them.  “I’m an athlete, Kiki. Let me do my ting.”  I rolled my eyes.  “You just rolled your eyes, innit.”  “How do you know?”  “I don’t need to see you to see you.”  My belly twisted. Fucker. Bold of him to say those words while we were in a position where it would only take a slight consensual shifting for there to be a real risk of pregnancy.  While it was true that I had entertained tiny vignette fantasies of climbing on Malakai like I was a squirrel scurrying up an oak tree, this wasn’t quite how I envisioned doing it. Malakai was a finalist in the Lit-Lympics, a competitive event founded by Ty Baptiste in which participants had to partake in a series of athletic challenges that ended with one or more shots of alcohol. The prize was the master bedroom with the en suite hot tub with a consenting partner of one’s choosing. The notion of group games usually made my blood turn icy, but due to the high stakes of this particular one (the hot tub) and the fact that Malakai’s participation necessitated my involvement, here I was. As the second of Ty’s three dress codes had been beach chic (he had turned the heating up in the house to create a tropical Sussex microclimate), I was wearing a neon-yellow sleeveless crop top and stone-hued denim booty shorts, while Malakai had unbuttoned a red, blue, and yellow geometrically patterned shirt that was paired with board shorts. His bare skin bumped against my chest as he warmed up.  “You’re just flexing for your boyfriends.”  Ty was currently doing squats with Shanti fastened to him, keeping count. Kofi had made up with Aminah after she gave him a shoulder massage to prep him for the previous event. Right now he was doing some kind of intricate warm-up dance footwork while Aminah smoothed down her hair. Neither of them had their blindfolds on yet. I’d made Malakai put his on early as a safeguarding precaution for myself. Eye contact was still too dangerous.  Ty’s family’s conservatory was large, running almost the entire length of the house, and all pool tables and exercise bikes had been cleared for this last event. More people had since arrived for the party and so each side of the floor-to-ceiling glass room was lined with Blackwellians with red cups in hand, buzzed by the notion that Ty might actually be beaten by a newcomer.  Both Malakai and I had had more than a couple of drinks by now, muddling through interviews that got easier as the alcohol released dormant flirtatious energy that ran hot over the awkwardness. I knew I was supposed to be uncomfortable, knew that I was meant to be mad at him for playing with me like this, but I allowed myself the indulgence of feeling the sweetness of the lie before I repressed the instinctive quickening of my pulse. This was a performance and Malakai was nothing if not a showman —the playful hollers and whistles couched us so warmly it made me feel cold. All Malakai was doing right now was running drills to flex and train flirtatious muscles. He was trying to avoid Fuckboi atrophy. This was purely medical. I was a physiotherapist.  I grabbed his chin and a hold of myself. “Focus. I need you to get into beast mode. Our main competition is Ty. He has Shanti and he’s gonna wanna show out for her. He has something to prove. Kofi will be too flustered by Aminah’s proximity to focus.  “We have to win this. We’re gonna have them eating dirt. Well this house is super clean so, like, licking the marble.” I paused. “We’re gonna have them getting mild poisoning from the disinfectant, just a couple of trips to the bathroom, nothing major.”  There was a couple of silent beats until Malakai breathed out. “You’re kind of a competitive sociopath, aren’t you, Banjo?”  “Shut up.”  “I like it.”  “Anyway, I’m gonna hoist my butt slightly up to alleviate the pressure on your—”  “Kiki, chill. I got you.” He gripped tighter onto my thighs.  “You better have. I’m at a really juicy part in the latest Ifekonia book. Shangaya and Niyo are in a mountain cave. They just had a heated argument and they’re definitely about to have angry sex. The hot tub would be a perfect place to get into it.”  “I’mma get you that horny reading hot tub time, Scotch.”  It was the first time he called me Scotch since the other night. It sunk into me, sat warm under my skin, made my heart buoyant enough to jump to my mouth and push out a smile that I didn’t tuck in fast enough. I was grateful he was blindfolded. The potency of whatever permeated the air between us seared through my confusion over the other night.  “Alright sistren, brethren, them-thren.” Chi, our self-proclaimed games master, gathered our attention. She was perched on top of Ty’s dad’s home bar in the corner of the room, a bottle of tequila in one hand and a karaoke mic in the other.  “On your marks!”  I had a last-minute anxiety spike, imagining being dropped on my ass in front of the Blackwell elite and having it immortalized in GIF form on Simi’s blog.  “You better not let me go, Kai.”  “Get set!”  Malakai bent his knees slightly, his hold on my thighs firm.  “Already made that mistake the other night.”  What?  “Go!”

After our triumph was declared I untied my scarf from his eyes and they were ready for me, waiting for me, searing through my flimsy resolve to not let him in again, because who was I kidding, he was already here. My chest had grown a hook for him to hang his smile on whenever he came around. He reduced all half-reconstructed walls around me to magma. I was in trouble, had been in trouble since I first set eyes on the kid.  The party around us began to roar back into action, as Ty clapped Malakai’s back in good sportsmanship, as the tunes picked up pace and volume under Kofi’s resumed authority, and as my whirling literary analysis of Malakai’s words gathered speed. Already made that mistake the other night. I hopped down from him, but his hands stayed on my waist and my arms stayed around his neck. He opened his mouth to speak, but then Chi was pulling my arm up from Malakai’s neck, looping hers through mine and dragging me away. Shanti promised that they would return me in one piece while pushing a cup of something syrupy and potent into my hand. Aminah loudly commanded Kofi to play our newest favorite song.  Then we were dancing, and the lights dimmed and my thoughts became looser, and though it became harder to grip on to what Malakai had said, the taste of it stuck to the roof of my mouth, and I realized that there was something sweet there, something intoxicating there, stronger than what was in my cup. As I rolled my tongue around its possibility, I got more excited. But then there was the burn. The thrill quickly got chased with fear. He could have just been playing, saying things just to say things. I looked across the room and he was with his boys by the drinks; he caught my eye and stole a heartbeat. There was too much to lose here—my head, my heart.  I was getting waved right then and my girls were waved, and it rolled under us and merged with the rhythm to pull us into the middle of the room. We went with it, hand in hand in hand, weaving through a crowd that had somehow doubled in size within the last hour. I lost sight of Malakai but found myself in a cluster with the girls where we fell into moves that called and responded to each other, that were in conversation, hips calling each other’s to come join, and I found myself laughing. I was here, with my girls, and our hair was swishing, and our booties were teasing gravity and we were whining on each other and delighting in each other. I was in this. I wasn’t on the outside anymore. Our laughter was a featuring artist on every banger and it made it better. We rapped, we sang, we rolled, and we dipped as our bones became tender with the heat of the beat. The chandeliers in the garden house shimmied in appreciation.  Ty bellowed, “The Blackwell Baddies In-fucking-DEED,” gassing us knowing we didn’t need gassing, gassing us knowing it was surplus because our energy was self-generated. Phones whipped out to film the movie we were all in and Kofi chose a song just for us, the rhythm bowing for us. Then, a hand on my waist. I turned around and Malakai addressed a question to the group while barely looking away from my face.  “Sorry to interrupt, ladies.” He smoothly avoided someone kicking him on the makeshift dance floor while gbeseing to Burna Boy. “You think I can have her back now?”  Aminah rolled her eyes. “Temporarily.”  Malakai bowed. “Many thanks.”  Chi smacked my ass and Shanti stuck her tongue out as Malakai took my hand and drew me to the corner of the room, and I floated through, high and happy, panting, feeling pretty.  He ran his eyes across me, his smile faint. “This looks good on you, Scotch.”  I leaned against the wall. “What does?”  “Everything.”  He took a moment.  “I owe you an explanation.”  The tempo had switched through the speakers, and a grown and sexy Afrobeat song flowed through, playful, soulful, sensual, created for slow misbehavior. I wanted this moment to stay still for a while—there was no denying what was between us right here and now and nothing he said would have changed that.  “Yes, you do. Dance with me first.”  Malakai blinked and then smiled something hot and narcotic and sweet. He took my hand and pulled me forward, his hands moving to my waist, as I slowly rotated it. His gaze followed the motion, transfixed, my hips his North Star, and I turned around and pressed my back against his chest. The beat acted like a catalyst to whatever chemical reaction was occurring, had been occurring, would be occurring within us, causing our bodies to answer the questions our mouths were too nervous to ask.  My back arched gently and Malakai’s hands curved across my hips, pushing me slightly closer to him.  “I’m sorry, Scotch.” Malakai’s breath was hypnotically warm against my ear, his grip still tight on me—the song had changed but the tempo remained the same, giving us an excuse to stay like this.  I swallowed. “What for?”  “Making you feel like I don’t want you.” He stopped moving, spinning me around so I was facing him, his hands still resting on my hips.  “Kiki, I want you. Been wanting you. And I wanted you so bad the other night. The reality of you isn’t messy, it’s . . . man, it’s perfect. I’m the mess. That’s why I got freaked out. I mess things up, Scotch. If I fuck this up, I will never forgive myself. This isn’t a casual thing to me. You’re not just a link to me. You’re it to me.”  His sentences were fired in searing, sharp bullets as if he didn’t speak them quickly they would melt in his mouth. Malakai was looking at me, eyes bright and wild yet stricken, apparently waiting for me to weigh up the truth of what he just said or figuring out if it was light enough to haul it back to him without me noticing. Too late. It was out there, too heavy to throw banter over, too impactful for us to revert back to how we were before.  Words were not at my disposal at that moment, and the only thing remotely resembling solid thought in my mind was the internal siren instructing me to kiss him. As I curved my hand around his neck and his face inched closer to mine, a bellow shattered the delicate spell above the room.  “Hear ye, hear ye, the KING has arrived. Yo, Ty, did my invite get lost in the post or something?”  Who else would pronounce their own entrance? Who else would command people to bow in their presence? Who else could make the butterflies in my belly flutter down and curve their wings around each other in protection? And who else would roll through with Simi in front of him, the harbinger of chaos, wearing a glossy, demure smile on her face and a red floor-length body-con with a thigh-high slit?  Zack Kingsford walked into the room, a bottle of Cîroc in his hands, smile wide, eyes scanning the party until they found mine. He winked.  Chapter 21


“Never have I ever hooked up with more than one person in this room.” I stiffened and Malakai muttered, “You have to be fucking kidding me.”  The party had migrated to the Baptistes’ Moroccan-style family room and while it was nice being curled up against Malakai at the foot of a sofa, we also had the misfortune of being sat opposite Zack.  Simi was shaking her head at him. “You’re really so fucking crass, Zack.”  “And yet,” I said, angling a sharp look at her, “you brought him here.”  Simi shrugged. “Whatever happened to community spirit?”  Aminah’s eyes narrowed and Shanti rolled hers from the sofa she and Aminah were sat on, bracketed by Kofi and Ty. Chi cleared her throat diplomatically.  “We’re not playing Never Have I Ever, Zack. We’re playing the numbers drinking game,” Chioma said with a tight smile from her position cross- legged on a cushion.  Since his unceremonious entrance, Zack had succeeded in making everyone feel slightly uncomfortable. He rolled through the party with his crew and without shame, feeling like a jurisdiction unto himself, knowing that Ty was too peaceable to say shit. Ty didn’t like trouble, and so, though his smile dimmed a little, he welcomed Zack in, let him divert the party to another gear. Ty figured we would get the drinking games Zack suggested out of the way before continuing the party, just to shut him up. This was of course under the misguided notion that Zack wasn’t obsessed with the sound of his own voice.  Zack hadn’t said a word to me since he arrived, but he was always near, always talking around me, beside me. Malakai had taken my hand, squeezed it, looked me in the eye, and said, “You sure you’re okay, Scotch? We can go.” And I’d replied with an easy nah, that there was no way I would leave anywhere because of Zack. Now I slightly regretted that decision as Zack repeated his question and necked his drink, looking straight at me.  “Come on.” He grinned. “Can’t only be me who’s shared the love.”  He wasn’t expecting an answer; he just wanted my attention. He also wanted to remind Malakai that he’d accessed me first.  Zack directed his gaze at Malakai. “Ay, that’s right. Who was it again? Chioma, Shanti, and some others, you been about, innit?”  He was trying to rile Malakai. I felt Malakai tense, but his voice remained level as he looked at Zack. “Is there a point to this?”  Zack laughed. “No vex. Look, man, I’m just trying to get to know you. There must be something special about you to make you the first guy on campus that Kiki claims.” Zack had strangely mutated the way he spoke when talking to Malakai, slackened his tongue to mimic Kai’s Naija- flavored south London accent. It made me feel queasy.  His eyes roamed over to me. “Because you’re picky, innit? Any man that’s had a chance to be with you is blessed.”  I held his gaze. “Anyone want a snack? Crisp bowl is empty. . . . I’ll be right back.”  Aminah shifted to follow me but I shook my head. Malakai’s brows furrowed gently.  I forced a smile out, murmuring, “I’m good. He’s gonna wait a minute and then follow me out. Let him. I need to deal with this by myself.” Malakai didn’t look convinced, but he released a tensed-jaw nod.  I’d just emptied a bag of Chilli Heatwave Doritos into a large, far-too- fancy crystal bowl in the sprawling farmhouse kitchen when I felt his presence behind me.  “You’re a prick, Zack.”  I put the bowl down and turned around, leaning against the counter to look up at his infuriatingly easy grin. He bent forward to grab a crisp and popped it into his mouth. “Don’t play like it’s not what you like about me.”  “I promise, I like nothing about you. Why are you here?”  He shrugged a shoulder. He was, of course, wearing a muscle T-shirt. He technically looked good because he always technically looked good. Everything was technically measured to the sum of Handsome but all I felt for him at this moment was repulsion. His pretty made my teeth ache, his cologne was suffocating, and his eyes had a sickly shine to them. Was it possible for a vagina to invert?  He stepped closer to me. “Ain’t it obvious? Kiki, I’m here for you. I’m not an idiot. You kissed him to make me jealous and it worked. Not talking to you is killing me.”  It was a premise hinged on the baffling delusion that we ever talked in the first place. I smiled sweetly. “Then die.”  As usual, my words didn’t land. He was living in his own American-teen soap opera. This was a pivotal moment in Kingsford Valley. He squinted, reaching out to caress my face. I shifted and his hand dropped.  “I fucking hate seeing you with him. You can drop the act—”  “Zack, I’m with Malakai because I want to be with him.” The lie didn’t taste like one.  “Babe.”  “I’m very close to a bread knife, right now. It’s serrated.”  “We can do this for real, this time. I see you, going to parties, out there, now. Imagine us doing that together? Ruling this place? Every king needs a queen.”  I snorted. “You’re a democratically elected leader, but since elections are coming up, maybe not for that long. There are a few more people contesting this year, innit? I saw on the blogs. People aren’t happy with your policy of being useless. Speaking of, what the hell are you up to with the Whitewell Knights? How long do you think you can play both sides for?”  Something in his gaze shifted, but he carried on smiling at me. “I’m trying to strengthen our foothold in Whitewell. Form an understanding. Blackwell just needs to see the vision. You can help with that. Together we’re a dream team. You endorse me on your show, maybe I can have you on my platform as VP. I mean you have amazing ideas, and—” He stopped as the cackle burst forth from me.  Why did I ever think Zack wasn’t funny? Zack was fucking hilarious. He didn’t even have what it took to be less transparent, he didn’t have enough personality to couch his shallowness in. Before, he wanted me because I rejected him—it was purely about possession and pride—but now it was because I was a tool for him. My feelings were just a tedious obstacle to maneuver around till he reached his goal.  I stepped closer to him and started speaking extremely slowly. “Zack, let me make this as clear as possible for you. I don’t want you. I won’t ever want you. You are not going to use me to win this election just because I have a few hundred more followers on ProntoPic and Brown Sugar’s numbers are going up. And you need to back the fuck up right now, before I grab the kitchen knife behind me and make this party a murder mystery.”  Zack moved back, but only slightly. “You’re crazy.”  “I am.”  “It’s sexy.”  “Get away from me.”  “Kiki.” He reached out to grab my arm just like he’d done at FreakyFridayz, but his hand dropped away at the sound of the firm male voice behind him.  “You didn’t hear what she just said?”  Despite knowing I could handle Zack, I felt my heart flip at the sight of Malakai. It wasn’t that I thought Zack could hurt me, but it was his imposition on my space, the fact that he saw rejection as a game he could win. Confusingly, Simi followed him in, for no other purpose, it seemed, but to bear witness to drama.  Now, Zack stepped away, back straightened, chin angled up. “Chill, man. We were just catching up. Reminiscing, right?”  The anger roiled in my blood. “You’re fucking sick.”  Malakai had walked further into the room, standing next to me and opposite Zack. His voice was calm and low but there was fire trapped in its cool, an inferno trapped in steel. “Yeah, I think you’re done here.”  Something ugly flickered in Zack’s eye, a glimpse of what was beneath his pretty. His smile was a snarl. “You know, it’s mad you and I aren’t boys. We have a lot in common. We’re handsome, have the same taste in women.”  Malakai stilled. “Walk away, man.”  Zack picked up the beer he had placed on the counter and shrugged. “Relax. I’m going. But come to me for advice whenever you wanna know how to make Kiki feel good.”  “Zack, what the fuck is wrong with you?” He was so predictable in the worst ways but Malakai had pushed himself forward from the counter, angling himself so he was in front of me. His jaw clenched as if he was trying to contain something. “Talk about Kiki one more time.” Voice placid, a cobra quiet in its coil.  Zack laughed.  The fact that four of us were missing from the main party must have rung alarm bells because in that moment, Aminah, Shanti, Chioma, Ty, and Kofi entered the kitchen. I was holding on to Malakai’s wrist and felt his pulse quicken; the air in the room soured and thickened.  “Kai, he isn’t worth the energy.”  Kofi had moved in closer, eyes narrowed, and the girls tried and failed to pull me from Malakai’s side. I’d noticed that Simi had picked up her phone. Did she really hate me enough to live tweet my drama?  “Zack, go home.” Ty’s usually affable demeanor had shifted, as he levelled a glare at Zack that made it clear why his opponents were terrified of him on the field, the full bulk of him seeming magnified. Malakai’s fists were balled tight. It was as if his whole body was vibrating in restraint.  Zack smiled menacingly and gestured to the room. “Shit man, everyone’s so tense. Chill. I’m just being friendly to the new kid. I’m just saying I can be like”—his smile widened—“your tour guide or study buddy for Kiki. I can give you tips. I know all the right spots to make her—”  It happened in a blink. Malakai leapt toward Zack, making him drop his beer, grabbed him by the shirt, and shoved him against the kitchen island. Though Zack attempted to fight back, Malakai had him pinned. The boys moved to break up the fight just as the girls successfully disrupted my attempt to reach Malakai, pulling me away. Two of Zack’s boys belatedly entered the kitchen, too drunk to make out what was happening, but somehow figuring out that it might be too late to save their man after seeing Ty’s involvement. They made noises that approximated macho aggression and pretended to try and get involved just in case anyone clocked their cowardice.  Malakai breathed hard, his fist hovering as Ty and Kofi held him back. He eventually dropped it with reluctance but maintained his grip on Zack’s shirt. He lowered his voice. “Let me not catch you fucking breathing in her direction again.”  Kofi released Malakai, his eyes on Zack. “We won’t hold him back next time.”  Ty stood between Malakai and Zack, ensuring he was towering down over him. “We’ll help.”  Zack made a strangled sneer of paltry hypermasculine bluster as he pulled himself up and readjusted his shirt. “Whatever, man. Pussies. Party’s dead anyway,” he said before summoning his boys to leave. He nodded at me, “You know where to find me.”  I released a false, wide grin and chirped, “Rot in hell.”  Simi, clearly bored by the absence of a true fight, had already made her way out. The boys made sure Zack and his minions were moving along while the girls assisted with a chorus of cusses, Shanti shouting, “Shoo, motherfucker,” as Aminah released a string of Yoruba curses and Chi made sounds that might have been a summoning of malevolent ancestors. A strange lump formed in my throat as I watched them, and I felt my eyes start to fill.  “You okay?”  I turned to Malakai to see the wild fury in his eyes had now mutated to soft concern. I exhaled heavily. “Yeah, I just . . . I haven’t really had a group of people . . . friends, stand up for me before. It means a lot. And I hate that I brought all this drama to you.”  Malakai’s brows creased as he reached for my shoulders, holding them with gentle hands. “Scotch, we care about you. A lot. . . . And you didn’t bring the drama. Zack did. I’m sorry I didn’t listen to you about not following you, I really did try and wait it out, but I couldn’t sit there knowing you were alone with that fucking creep. Are you sure you’re okay?”  “I am. Thank you. I just . . . kind of don’t feel like going back to the party.”  Malakai nodded slowly. His unaddressed confession was now radiating heat. “Yeah. Me neither.” He drew his eyes across my face and all our unsaids swirled about and made it stickier, harder to breathe. Questions hung in the air, dripped onto our tongues, made us thirsty. “I have a lot of footage from tonight, and we got enough interviews. Would it be super unsocial if we—”  “I think we should claim our prize. Ty said the master bedroom has an eighty-eight-inch TV. Has all the streaming apps. The bed is Alaskan king sized.” I gestured at the huge kitchen with the equivalent of a Tesco Metro stocked on every counter. “And I think we’re good for snacks and drinks.” Malakai released a small, sweet smile that trilled a charge through my veins. “Alright then. After-party. Just us.” Chapter 22


I flopped down next to where Malakai was reclining on the giant bed, leaning up on his elbow. The bounce of the mattress jostled me so my bare thigh grazed his leg and my arm pressed against his. Everything stilled.  He turned to me and smiled, the amber light from the bedside lamp warming his face further as the movie we’d put on—Brown Sugar, as a half-joke—burred low on the colossal flatscreen. His eyes sent a thrill through me as they skipped across my form. “You should keep that shirt.”  I’d forgotten to pack my pajamas in my confused state, so Malakai had lent me a T-shirt while he had changed into his sweats. His shirt skimmed me in a way that somehow made me hungrier for him. A sudden urgency wrapped an idea around my tongue.  “Let me do you.”  Malakai froze. “What?”  “Let me interview you.”  I slipped off the bed and padded over to the grand mahogany desk at the corner of the Baptistes’ master bedroom, picked up Malakai’s camera, and flicked it on. I beckoned Malakai over, and he sat on the chair in front of me. I perched on the broad desk and lifted a leg so my foot rested beside him on the chair. His gaze jumped to my thigh—inches from his face—then back to my eyes.  “Malakai Korede.”  “Oh, we’re really doing this?”  I smiled as I tilted the camera toward him. “It’s your turn.”  “That angle is really bad.”  “It’s arty.” “It’s wonky. Also, the lighting.” I switched on the reading lamp on the desk. “There. See?” Malakai laughed. I cleared my throat theatrically, then said in a crisp, journalistic tone, “Malakai Korede, I have a few questions to ask you. The first being”—I let my eyes wander from the lens to his face—“you sure you like me?” The sudden blaze in Malakai’s eyes answered me before he said, “Yes.” Still, I needed to make sure this new ground was sturdy before I stepped onto it. I swallowed, forced myself not to whisper. “No, I mean . . . are you sure sure? On a scale of one to ten, where would you rank your certainty?” Malakai got up to stand between my legs. “Eleven.” I leaned back on the desk, lifting my other leg so it was on the chair, effectively bracing Malakai between my thighs. “That’s impossible.” “You’re impossible, so it’s possible.” Malakai’s eyes flashed into mine. He took the camera from me, switched it off, carefully placed it on the desk. He stepped into me, our chests now bumping, our faces so close together I could swear I was getting tipsier by the champagne on his breath. It tasted potent. His eyes scanned my face, his hand lifting to it, cupping my cheek. “You are everything, Scotch. I like your mind. I like seeing it work up close. I like your eyes, especially when you’re rolling them at me. Yeah. Just like that. I like how you see things. Adds color to how I see things. I like that when you’re listening to a song you love, you close your eyes and let it take you places. I wanna go wherever you go to. “I like your mouth.” His eyes dropped to it and I felt my lips tingle. “Not gonna lie—I’m kind of obsessed with your mouth. How something so spicy can be so sweet. I like it when I make your mouth laugh.” My lips curved in response. “I like your skin.” He picked up my hand and swiped his thumb across my wrist. “I like feeling your pulse race beneath it. I like the person beneath it.” I discovered the words “knees going weak” was not a silly, sentimental little saying, but a literal phenomenon. My joy was barging against my gates of caution, demanding freedom. “My pulse?” I said, my tone light. “You being a vampire would be really inconvenient right now.” Malakai smiled. I needed to joke to find my footing in this new place we were in. Vulnerability made me nervous. He knew. He gave me the space. “That’s why I said all the antivampire stuff before. Needed to throw you off the scent.” He swept his thumb across my cheek. “How you feeling?” “I feel like . . .” I paused. The truth felt steady in my mouth. “You’re the only guy that’s ever held my hand without the intention of getting something from me. You just hold my hand to hold it. To hold me. Like you like doing it or something. And it scares the shit out of me, every time, because I like you doing it. Because I don’t want you to let go. It feels good and safe and right. . . . You feel right to me.” My voice faltered, buckling under the weight of my words, worried that it was more than he wanted from me, that I had shown too much. My eyes flicked downward, but Malakai tilted my chin up, looking at me in a way that sent shockwaves through my body. His hand slipped around to my back and pushed me closer to him. “I’m not playing with this, Scotch. This ain’t a game to me.” I swallowed. “Me neither.” My hand glided up the ridges and dips underneath the thin cotton of his shirt. Despite the tension on his face, a flash of mischief skittered through it, making him look impossibly sexier as he inched closer to me, lids heavy. Malakai propped his hand around my neck as his mouth brushed against my neck, my jaw and my ear, staggering my breath, making the air buckle and spasm in my throat. Then his lips landed on my cheek. He knew precisely what he was doing. I laughed. “Oh come on. Give me more than that, Kai—” I felt his lips curve against my skin. “Okay.” Then we were kissing each other like we were oxygen, consuming each other, growing stronger. Malakai tasted like all the things I liked: cognac and chocolate, honey and spice. Sweet, sharp, smooth, soothing, stimulating. Familiar and thrilling. This was different from our first kiss. That was introductory Chemistry 101. Our tongues lapped and laved and our teeth bit and grazed, kissing with messy grace and hunger, and my thighs wrapped firmer around his waist, responding to his firmness against me and driving us both crazy with pressurized swirls that he matched, falling easily into my rhythm, harmonizing with my pace.  I’d never wanted anyone so bad. My hands travelled up and down his chest, enjoying the heat of his skin against my fingertips, enjoying how I could feel his groans reverberating through them, how I could taste his groan in my mouth. I smiled into his groan because I really enjoyed the taste of how I made him feel. I needed to feel more of him. I broke away from him for a second and watched him watch me as I slowly pulled off the shirt I was wearing and tossed it to the floor.  Malakai’s breathing got heavier and so did his eyes, their weight causing them to drop from mine and move across my body like he had uncovered a treasure thought lost. Slowly, across my breasts, my stomach, my hips, his eyes left searing trails where they travelled. I imagined them as glowing lines, crisscrossing on my skin, amber against brown, like he was drawing constellations on me, or drawing constellations from me. Stargazing, gazestarry. My stomach flipped and dipped. The pulse between my legs became more incessant at the feel of him getting firmer.  I smiled against his lips. “I can put the shirt back on if you’re uncomfortable.”  Malakai’s eyes slowly rose to mine and he smiled indulgently, wickedly, making the fire in me roar. He curved his hand around the back of my neck. Our breaths married, his lips moved against mine. “Kiki Banjo, you are a problem.”  He tried to slip his tongue inside my mouth but I gently pulled away, lifting the edge of his shirt, slowly peeling it upward, revealing the smooth, rigid, creamy deep of his skin.  “Come solve me, then.”  Malakai’s smile slanted and he pulled away so he could yank the shirt over his head and throw it to the side like it was something fetid and unholy. He was back with me in a second, hands spreading around the breadth of my thighs and lifting me up, drawing me close to him like I was something sacred. My arms twined around his neck, the feel of his skin against mine, his heat taking me up to a higher level of thirst and I kissed him, wanting to sate it.  He walked me over to the bed, kissing me back all the way, matching my appetite. He sat down on the edge of the bed and dipped his head so his mouth was on my neck and then my collar bone, and then lower to the soft, cushiony curves of my chest, and I was delighted to note that his lips really were all that they had seemed on my mouth, full and accommodating and bossy, commanding my body to yield to their softness. My body did as it was told.  My hands wandered over the smooth muscular terrain of his back as I kissed up his shoulder, up the slopes of his deltoids till I reached his neck, sucking and nipping like a starved, wild thing until Malakai let out a low growl, wrapped his hands around my waist, and switched us around so I was on my back. We moved further up the mattress and he laid on his side, hovering above me, breathless.  “Shit, Scotch,” Malakai’s voice was low as he leaned his forehead on mine. His smile grazed my lips. “You’re mad sexy. You know that?”  My laughter came out in tiny, bubbly, and breathless spurts. “I had a hunch.” I slung an arm around his neck, whispering against his plush lips, “You’re okay too.”  Malakai chuckled, and I loved the sensation of it reverberating through me. He arched a brow. “I’m okay?”  I shrugged, purposefully pulling a casually unfussed face. “Yeah. I mean you aite. Cute.”  Malakai levelled an incredulous look at me. “Cute. You’re really calling me cute right now?” He glanced down at the very, very sizeable protrusion in his sweatpants. “Right fucking now?”  “Aw. You are so adorable when you’re being all hypermasculine. . . . Shit.”  I bit my lip as Malakai skipped his hand down my stomach slowly and began to knead through my knickers. Just as I opened my mouth and released a breathy sound, Malakai ate that moan, catching my lips, kissing me deeply, indulgently, like I was something to be savored—like he could slow time itself down with every languid flick of his tongue, every rogue suck of my lip, as he continued to massage my now considerably soaked panties. I writhed against him and dug my fingers into his hair. Malakai pulled away, eyes heavy-lidded, but questioning, lips bumping against mine as his fingers moved in swirls against me. “Tell me.”  “Kai.” His name was a moan. I could see the effect on him, in the flash of his eyes, and I could feel it pressed into my thigh, so pleasingly. Every vaguely sexual experience I had before this was lust-by-numbers, erotic-by- rote.  “Kiki, I need you to tell me if you want me to feel on you.”  I could tell Malakai was enjoying torturing me like this because of the slight curl of his mouth. I nipped his lip in vengeance, and his smile just became wickeder. “Feel in you. Because that’s what I want to do. I wanna feel how cute you think I am.”  I ground desperately against him, biting my lip, his words almost working as much magic as his hand was. My arms wound around his neck so I could drag him over me, his leg nestled between mine. I kissed and sucked his neck, my hands slowly massaging his chest, sweeping my fingers across his rock-hard nipples. Malakai released a low snarl and pulled back. “Nice try. Witch. Almost had me. You’re good. But that’s not an answer.”  Expecting me to speak when he was doing what he was doing to me might have been the only truly mean thing Malakai had ever done. I was just heart and nerve endings set alight. I felt exposed. Vocalizing the exact thing I needed him to do to me made me shy. Yet it was exciting, my need rubbing shoulders with my coyness, the tension challenging me to step up.  I slipped my arm from around his body so I could slowly spread and smooth my hand down my stomach. Malakai pulled back slightly and watched my hand’s journey, transfixed. It stopped when it reached the tropical junction between my legs, joining Malakai’s. His eyes jumped up to mine, blazing bright. Our gazes were still fixed on each other when my hand moved over his, taking it to slip it under the waistband of my panties, pressing his palm hard against me. Our breathing instantly became even more erratic, Malakai’s eyes a hypnotic black hole that held all my deepest, most desperate desires. His touch made a home in me.  Malakai’s voice was gravelly with tension. “Showing me works too.”  I released a gust of a giggle. “Do you think you can take over from here?”  “I got you.” Malakai’s smile was roguish delight and he kissed me hungrily as he gently pushed a finger inside me. I immediately gasped and bucked, the delicious sensation ricocheting throughout my body, tip to toe. He was agonizingly slow with it, making me coil up with exquisite tension. He was doing it on purpose, I knew, because he drew back, eyes glinting mischievously.  I managed to choke out, strained, “Dick. Petty.”  Malakai’s smile broadened and he welcomely slid two more fingers in, varying the pace, pressure, and depth, making my hands fly to his back, sink my nails in, making his name a mew of anguished bliss. “Kai—”  When he spoke, his voice was husky with frustration. “Do you know what you do to me when you say my name like that, Scotch?” Which, of course, made me grind up against his hand more. If it was anything like the way I felt when he called me Scotch then I was basically deific.  I arched my back and bent my arm to unclasp my bra so his hand could do what it was doing with no restrictions. His free hand travelled and explored the newly exposed territories, caressing, tweaking, acute and thorough in the pleasure. It was glorious torment. I slung a leg across his waist and writhed against him. His smile melted into something more tense, focused, arousing. Aroused.  I was moving chaotically against him as his fingers increased in pace, conjured tides, stretched me delightfully. He looked so good and so sweet in the dim lamp lighting, the muted gold marrying into his dark skin that I kissed him harder, even more messily, wanting to taste as much as I could. Malakai pulled away only so he could cover a nipple with his mouth, lapping me up, hungry, grazing with his teeth.  “You. Taste. So. Good.” Each word was punctuated with a punishingly pleasurable hard suck.  “More.”  A menacing grin against my skin. “More, who?”  “Kai.”  His mouth did the same on the other breast, continuing his heavenly censure, while his hand took over the other one, making sure there was no neglect, conscientious in his caressing. I was losing my mind. There was no time, no space to be embarrassed. I just wanted to feel, let my feelings be noisy. I’d spent so long hushing, ignoring them. His lips moved to sear the skin between my breasts, then my stomach, soft, sweet, scorching, embossing his lips across me, down, down, down, till he stopped—his eyes flying to mine in question.  “Keep going.”  He gently nudged my thighs further apart with his face and kissed the soft flesh on my right and left. He was deliberate with it, left enough space between kisses for me to start to get indignant, impatient, before he was back on me again. He pressed his lips against me through the thin material of my lacy briefs, the heat of his mouth making me buck, before he looped his fingers through my waistband. I arched, helped him move my panties down my thighs. Then, finally, finally, all my nerve endings standing up in applause, his mouth replaced his fingers, the transition smooth, his tongue swirling and thrusting expertly, hungrily inside me, until my hand was spread across his head, moving frenetically against him. Malakai was a lion’s snarl of delight, his mouth pushing warm winds that forced my teeth to sink into my bottom lip. He was starvation coming home to a banquet.  The words that flew out of my mouth were illicit, raspy sounds that only seemed to galvanize him, a circuit of pleasure. I felt like I could taste light if I wanted to, hear yellow, see the future. Then a sensation like no other, a pleasure and heat I’d never felt before, bloomed and rippled across my entire body and I came undone, clamped up, squeezed at my chest, moved raggedly against him, against the bedsheets. I flopped down limp, sweating, spasming, panting in a state of disbelief. How did that even happen?  Malakai shifted up and moved so his chest was covering mine, the weight of his body feeling like the ultimate comfort blanket. He stared down at me, eyes dark and coruscating, the corner of his lips kicked up as he scanned my face, his breathing as jagged and irregular as mine. His thumb scooped a rivulet of sweat from my forehead and he casually examined the droplet.  I frowned. “What are you—” I stopped, fascinated. He rubbed his thumb, my perspiration, his meticulous work, on my bottom lip, and sucked it into his mouth in a slow, exquisite kiss that made my core tighten again. It was depraved, it was divine.  He brought his forehead to mine. “Thought you didn’t sweat?”  I laughed and pushed his face away from mine. “You’re.” Pant. “The.” Pant. “Worst.” I was amazed I could even talk: I’d just orgasmed with a guy for the first time. Ever.  And there was the fact that no one had ever looked at my body like Malakai looked at my body. Because Malakai didn’t just look at my body, he looked at me. And he heard me. He listened with his hands and his eyes.  I swept my thumb across his jaw and tugged at the waistband of his sweatpants. He’d given me something. Maybe I should give him something back. Just as I began to slip my hand down his waistband, his hand flew to my wrist, held on to it.  “What’s wrong? Don’t you want to—”  “Do you want to?”  I hesitated. I wanted to in the abstract. Like, I knew I wanted to. I wasn’t sure if I was ready to right then, but— Malakai gently moved my hand away and planted a kiss on my collarbone. “We have time, Scotch.” I sat up and watched him quizzically for a moment, then pulled my panties up, grabbed my bra and refastened it. Was I being rejected? Again?! I moved a little further from him on the bed. “Um, you sure? Because I feel like I got the most out of . . . that. I’d get it if you felt like maybe I didn’t reciprocate enough?” Oh my gosh. I was bad at this. I was so bad at this. Malakai made me feel powerful but also sensitive. Like my heart was comprised of a billion tinier hearts. Why was I acting like such a dork? I cleared my throat. Malakai’s brows furrowed. He was looking at me like I was nuts but also like he wanted to hold me. He was looking at me like I was a meowing puppy. “What? Okay. No. Stop. Can you get over here? You are way too far away from me right now.” I closed the space between us, climbed on him, and sat across his legs, thighs bracing his. “Hey.” Malakai’s eyes were angel down. “Hi. Look, Scotch, I need you to know that I got a lot out of that. You were amazing. And it feels good to make you feel good. I like making you feel good.” His gaze harbored a faint, diluted version of the same blessed wickedness they had when his fingers were inside me, conjuring electrical storms within me. I got an instant sharp trill between my legs. Realizing how much I liked Malakai made me realize how much I wasn’t quite ready. It was a big deal. It would be a big deal with him. I just got a hold of what this thing was between us. I needed to secure myself more before we increased the weight of it. I didn’t want to lose balance. “So, just know that. Whatever you decide you want to do, make sure it’s totally on you. Not about me.” I cleared my throat. “Yeah, I know. And I think I was just caught up just then. I, actually . . . I don’t think I’m quite there yet. I mean, I’m on my way but—” “You don’t have to explain, Scotch.” He brushed braids from my face. “We can go slow as you want. I’m ready when you’re ready. I’m gonna be here.” He smiled. “Trust.” I swallowed and stared at him. Hot stinging tears sprung to my eyes. My chest felt full and lighter at the same time. This was mortifying. I was crying like some kind of virgin nerd. I mean technically, yes, I was a virgin, and okay, yes, I was kind of into fantasy cosplay, but I wasn’t a virgin nerd. I was a virgin bad bitch. Also, I could drive. I was no Cher Horowitz. Plus, I wasn’t crying because I was a virgin bad bitch. I was never ashamed of that. There was no shame in that. Sexuality doesn’t define either way. I knew that. I was crying because—why the hell was I crying?!  Malakai drew his head back from me, eyes widening with panic. “Oh man . . . Kiki? You okay? It’s not that I don’t want to, I promise—shit, am I making sense?”  He was adorable. This made me want to cry more. He looked so sweet and so stressed. I kissed the corner of his mouth. And then his jaw. Then his ear.  “I know you hate being called cute but you’re really fucking cute.” I smiled at Malakai’s mock frown, which made him impossibly cuter, and whispered against his lips, “And sexy. Not every guy can be both. I happen to like it. A lot.”  “Yeah?” He murmured his smile into my mouth. His delight tasted like mine. “Well, I like you a lot, Kikiola Banjo.”  It felt as good as all my best feelings melded into one: iced lemonade on a hot day, the first time I listened to the album Lemonade, hot Lagos rain on my skin while riding a bike around my grandad’s compound when I was twelve, finding a five-pound note in the pocket of a jacket, sun between my shoulder blades, a bookmarked pair of shoes on sale, someone cancelling plans I was dreading, the taste of ripe plantain fried golden, the way Frank Ocean repeats “pleasure” on “Pink Matter,” but somehow more. Somehow wider, somehow deeper. Something that was part of me now, fusing into my skin and into my soul. It made me feel like I was floating, flying, and falling at the same time. Like I was ascending while rooted safely. Before I got the chance to analyze it further, Malakai was kissing me again, and I was kissing him back. Chapter 23


“You look . . . chirpy.” Dr. Miller’s red lips curved wryly as I placed a coffee cup on her desk. Her room smelled of the bergamot-and-tea-tree-oil- scented steam emanating from the diffuser she had in the corner of her chicly decorated office, all Swedish ergonomics, wooden imitation Bantu sculptures, and succulents.  “Oh, you must be mistaken, Dr. M. This is my usual look of urbane insouciance. You know what it must be?” I plopped myself down in the seat in front of her. “I switched up my nude lip gloss.”  Her lips twitched as she raised the cup to me in thanks and surreptitiously pushed a brown paper bag of mini flapjacks toward me.  I grinned and popped one into mouth as she said, “Well the new lip gloss suits you. I like it.” She clicked on the keyboard of her laptop so it whirred to life and brought up the documents she needed for our catch-up.  “How are you finding your partnership with young Mr. Korede?”  I tried to eat my smile but I felt it spilling out of me, just like the warmth emanating from my chest, almost keeping me as snug as Malakai’s hoodie, which I was currently wearing over tights; I’d taken it from his room, where I’d spent the night tangled up with him in his bed.  It’d been a fortnight since Ty’s country house and I’d been walking around like I’d swallowed a star: fiery, celestial, delightfully volatile, and beaming everywhere. It felt like we were supposed to be this way, like our connection had been prepped for this progression. Spending our days together held new pleasure, liberated to do all the things we had to do to keep up the pretense without the souring tinge of pretense—and with the addition of other things that weren’t allowed under the stipulated rules— like his hand squeezing my knee during lectures, like kissing in the quad, like him calling me baby, like me liking it. We were also, to our mutual delight, discovering the many creative ways we could enjoy each other before I was ready for sex. I couldn’t articulate this to Dr. Miller for obvious reasons so I cleared my throat and hoped to push back the heat in my face. “The partnership is going well, I think.” Dr. Miller nodded briskly—I thought I caught a glint in her eye, but it might have been wintery sunlight beaming through her office blinds. “Good. I believe your partner thinks so too—his film is coming along very nicely. You two work well together. I can see that your voice adds something special to his film and I’m pleased by the progress you’re making with your application project. The audio reality show was a novel conceit. It’s warm, it’s engaging, and your listeners have more than doubled.” The clip of Malakai and Zack’s scuffle had been almost definitely recorded and leaked by Simi, with evident glee in seeing me in the midst of the mess. Mercifully, it had backfired, with the hashtag #MMAMalakai spinning around campus alongside GIFs of Zack stumbling comically, slow and impotent. Our subscribers had gone up. As I allowed the warmth of the praise to sink in, a sound coming from the window threatened to distract me completely. If I listened closely, I could detect the words “Whitewell Knights.” I blocked the noise out and focused on Dr. Miller’s inscrutable expression. “This is all perfect for your application.” Dr. Miller paused and I heard the loudly silent but. “Kiki, what would the internship mean to you?” I opened and shut my mouth. It was supposed to be an easy question but it rolled heavier in my mind than anticipated. “Freedom? . . . It’s hard to explain but I had the opportunity to do something like this before and I missed out on it because I was a—a smaller version of myself. Now I feel more confident. Ready. I feel more me. Like I’m hiding less.” Dr. Miller sipped her coffee and nodded, with a glimmer of a smile. “People connect to authenticity. Make sure, whatever you do, you center what feels right to you. That’s where integrity in media comes in. It’s not always pretty but that’s what connection is about.” The sound coming from the window got louder. “The truth.”

“We don’t debate with hate! We don’t debate with hate! Good night, Whitewell Knights!”  There was a chain in front of the student union building where the studio was. Or rather, a human blockade, holding up placards and headed by Adwoa and some renegades from Blackwell. I spotted Chioma and Shanti. Other students slowed down to take pictures and videos, join in the chant or taunt. A group of white boys, in pastel oxford shirts and sweaters with little riding horses embroidered at the top right corner, crowded around. The Whitewell Knights. They looked stressed, cheeks red, periodically running their fingers through their hair, standing with their hands on their hips and occasionally saying things like “This is just savage,” “Ridiculous,” “Preposterous,” “This is why we need the debate.” Campus security were encircling the premises menacingly, but technically they couldn’t do anything. Protest was our right.  Malakai, Aminah, and I slowed down as we approached the building, working our way through the crowd—it was show day, we were on in an hour and had planning to do. Aminah swore under her breath as she shoved a James or a Spencer out of the way.  “I get why we need to do this but we have a show. How long are they gonna be here for?”  Malakai had been holding my hand. He aimed a hard warning look at a Francis who tried to get in my way. The Francis slinked off. Malakai shrugged. “As long as they need to, probably. I dunno, I think this is really cool. They’re not listening so we make them listen. We gotta disrupt them.”  I moved so I was slightly ahead of them. “Let me get at Adwoa, see what’s up.”  Adwoa caught my eye and dropped her protest arm, face softening from the grim determination it had previously been positioned in. She passed her megaphone to someone and took us both from the furor, pulling me round the side of the building.  “Adwoa, what is happening?”  She was panting, wild eyed. “Kiki. I quit the cabinet. Today. You wouldn’t believe the shit that went down since we last spoke. I went snooping. Found that Zack is getting sent money to hold this debate. None of which, of course, will go back to Blackwell.”  My breath hitched. “Wait, what?”  “Zack’s been having meetings with the Whitewell Knights. Remember last year, when we booked the main hall for Reni Eddo-Lodge and when she came to speak, it weirdly, coincidentally, turned out that there was an administrative fuckup and the Whitewell Knights had booked it for that pseudo-intellectual nationalist guy? Zack got paid off to cancel it.”  “Hold up.” I blinked, trying to process this. “Zack has been sabotaging us the whole time?”  Adwoa grabbed my arm. “Kiki, he has been going to the meetings. I’ve been working on this for months. I have a mole. Zack is such an idiot. They’re good to him, so he thinks of course, they can’t be racist. But it’s great PR for them. They’ve been using him this whole time. Did you know that Zack’s dad was a Whitewell Knight too? They always find one so they can keep up the pretense that they ain’t a fucking Klan. He’s a legacy.  “Zack was somehow smart enough to find a way to be in power and also take money. He has president of a society on his CV and he also gets to pocket money and connections from helping out the Whitewell Knights. He’s going to get his pick of fellowships, internships, graduate jobs— whatever he wants.”  I stumbled back. It was clear now that Zack’s brand of dark was layered, any depth he had directed to being the world’s biggest prick.  “Shit, Adwoa. I mean, well done, but shit. You found this out all by yourself?”  Adwoa shrugged. “Nah. My girlfriend’s a professional sleuth. She has a blog. She helped dig. Did some undercover work with him. He had extra money to buy her stuff, and he couldn’t help but brag.” She rolled her eyes as the noise of the protest escalated. “I know we have to do something and out him to everyone but she can’t expose him because her platform isn’t far- reaching enough and the institution won’t take it seriously as it’s a gossip site. If we swing at him, we can’t afford to miss. Look, Kiki, I have to go. I’m sorry this is getting in the way of the show but—”  I shook my head. “It’s fine. Actually, I think I have an idea. Let me help.”  The idea solidified as the words left my mouth. After his antics at Ty’s house, it was clear that Zack, in general, was an infection who needed to be neutralized for the good of Blackwell. If he behaved like that toward me, what were his actions like toward the First Years who flocked around him, mainly for social currency? He was addicted to power and ownership, and it made him a perpetually unsatisfied monster. It would be messy and I’d have to run it past Aminah as it would put Brown Sugar’s recent success at risk— getting involved in politics was almost a sure-fire way to plummet listenership—but I had to do it.  “Yeah?” Adwoa didn’t bother to hide her surprise. It was understandable considering my track record.  I looked back at the burgeoning crowd. Malakai had found a placard and Aminah was looking at her watch, rolling her eyes.  I nodded. “Tag me in.”

Whitewell College Radio, 9:30–11 P.M. slot, Thursday Brown Sugar Show

“What’s up, sweet things? It’s your girl K, and we’re gonna be doing something a little different today. As you may have noticed, the musical theme of this episode has been a little militant—rap in war mode—because I’m tryna get us ready for something.  “I want to talk about the Wasteman of Whitewell. You see friends, what I got wrong before is who this Wasteman is. This ain’t no Bogeyman shit, this is real. He is in our midst. See, his Wastemanosity goes far beyond the scope of being a dick to the gyaldem—and make no mistake people, that is still included. That alone would be enough. But not for him. This man is greedy with his fuckery, and yeah, I said fuckery because this is a fuckery. Fresh out the factory. This guy is sophisticated in that respect—maybe only in that respect, yes offense, yes disrespect—his badmind reaching to affect us as a community. I’m talking about none other than our dear Commander- in-Chief, Zack Kingsford.  “Some of you are already unhappy with him, I know that. I hear that. You were outside protesting, and now you’re outside blasting this show on the speaker. You’re exercising your right to be heard. It’s our right not to have our rights be the subject of debate, protesting against the sanctioning of hate. The fact that Zack allowed this to happen is a disgrace, but what’s even more disgraceful is the fact that he’s been taking money from the Whitewell Knights to sabotage his own community.  “Events cancelled and moved, and the things that do happen aren’t sorted by him. Black careers day? Adwoa organized. Fashion show? Shanti Jackson. Open mics? Chioma Kene. And remember the hurdles those women overcame? How Adwoa struggled for a permit to get the Black careers fair until she started saying words like ‘discrimination’ to fight for the cause? How Shanti could only get permission for her Afrocouture Fashion Show if she agreed that she’d also have white models for ‘diversity’?  “And I’m sure we all know that FreakyFridayz would not have happened if I hadn’t broached the idea in public. Zack didn’t leave it to me because he was generous, he left it to me because he thought it was gonna flop. None of these endeavors have flopped. AfroWinter Ball didn’t flop because Simi Coker, baddest on campus, has chaired it for two years running.  “So that leads us to the question: What exactly is Zack running? Because it ain’t Blackwell. Adwoa just quit so what do we have left in the cabinet? A corrupt president and his bum-licking cronies. The real Wastemen of Whitewell.”  I could hear the cheering outside the building, my voice reverberating across the quad. I leaned into the mic, emboldened. “Fear not, fam, because I think I have a solution. A new cabinet. A Blackwell run by the people who actually run tings. We’ve looked into the society laws and if you all call for a new order on the student portal now live on our website, we can hold a by-election. How you feel about that?”  I looked back at Aminah, who was assiduously monitoring the comments on the Brown Sugar page on her tablet, eyes focused behind her designer glasses. She had been skeptical of the idea at first because of the anticipated drop in listenership but now she smirked and whispered: “They feel very good about that.”  The faint uproar from outside the building confirmed it. We grinned at each other.  “Well, alright, then. Anyone can run, of course, but right now I have some people who would like to put their case forward. And in the coming weeks anybody who would like to put their name forward for cabinet positions can come state their cases, right here, on the show, if you all agree to an election. But for now, I would like to introduce presidential candidate Adwoa Baker; events secretary candidate Shanti Jackson; student liaison officer candidate Chioma Kene; and press officer candidate Aminah Bakare. We’re not gonna let the Wastemen win.”  I sat back, spun my chair around as Adwoa—who had been sitting next to me the entire time—started her manifesto with a rousing bellow of “What’s good, Blackwell.” On the sofa, Shanti, Chioma, and Aminah all grinned widely, thumbs up, hands put together in reverence, in celebration of a new era. I looked up at the camera Malakai was pointing my way with a grin. He’d wanted to film it just for my records, “to remind yourself how sick you are, in case you ever forget.”

“Oh my gosh, Kai.” I was beside myself with glee as I let myself into Malakai’s room, slipping my sneakers off. “On the way here I saw the Whitewell Wailers doing a melodic a capella rendition of ‘Niggas in Paris’ on the quad but instead of ‘niggas’ they said ‘suckas,’ as if that would make it any less of a hate crime. Anyway, instead of saying ‘marry Kate and Ashley’ the lead nerd goes, ‘marry Kiki and Ashley.’ And winks at me. I know you’re sad you missed it, which is why I recorded it for you. Man, you are so lucky to have me in your life.”  Malakai scooped me up at the door and kissed me hello, and despite its default knee-weakening properties, I tasted something amiss in the kiss. He released me and gave me a smile that tried in earnest to reach his eyes before he sat on the bed, pulled me onto his sweatpants-covered lap. “I really am. And I’m not surprised that you have Glee Club nerds serenading you in the middle of campus. Show me the video.”  I pulled back a little. We had an ongoing competition about who would catch the most egregious showcase from a Whitewell performing arts club in the wild. Last week he’d seen an operatic version of Beyoncé’s “Brown Skin Girl” performed as a show of intersectional-feminist-solidarity by a bottle-tanned girl called Imogen and was moved to hysterical tears. This reaction was underwhelming to say the least.  I frowned and held his chin. “What’s wrong?”  Kai dropped his eyes to my lips in an act that was more avoidance than lust. “Nothing, I’m just pissed you beat me—”  “Kai.”  “Seriously, Scotch, I’m good.”  I swallowed, stoically accepting one of my worst fears realized. “Okay, Malakai, if you’re suddenly not into this you have to say. This is your out— you don’t have to spare my feelings.”  Malakai’s eyes snapped sharply to mine, brows creased with incredulity. “Woah. What? Scotch, nothing like that.” He kissed my shoulder. “Never like that. How could you think—”  “I don’t know what to think because you’re not talking to me. I know something is up,” I said, even as the surge of hot relief washed over me, detangling the preemptive knot in my belly. I released the breath I hadn’t even known I’d been holding, but I still sensed something askew.  Malakai cleared his throat, reluctantly bringing his eyes to mine. The glint of vulnerability in them pierced my chest. “It’s really not that deep. I just, I, uh, told my dad that I got that summer job as a runner at the production house. And he said he couldn’t believe I was passing up working at his office in Lagos to be a glorified houseboy.”  Malakai released a hollow, gruff laugh as I rubbed his back, my heart cracking a little just as I knew his own had. “And I don’t even really know why I told him. Why what he thinks still matters to me. Why I think that if I win the Shades of Motion competition, or at least get shortlisted, then maybe he will begin to take this shit seriously. Me, seriously.” He shook his head, rubbing a hand across his face. “It’s pathetic really. Can we just forget ab—”  “I got you something last week. When you told me you got the job. It arrived this morning.”  I shifted off his lap and reached for the gift bag tucked into the tote I’d dropped on his bedroom floor. Malakai’s brows furrowed in quiet curiosity as I passed the gift to him. I beckoned him to open it with a gentle jut of my chin. “Spoiler alert. It’s a framed picture of me.”  Malakai grinned as he opened the bag, the smile falling away as soon as he saw what was in it. He lifted the gift from the bag, stared at it, eyes flitting from shock to wonder to gratitude and getting increasingly shinier. My heart grew ten more sizes at his expression.  “Scotch.” His voice was a rough choke.  It was a filmmaking clapperboard. In white marker, I’d written “Untitled” as the name of the production, and “Malakai Korede” beside “director.” The date was his birthday.  I curved my hand around the back of his neck and let my thumb sweep across the sweet valley of his cheekbone. “Here’s the thing, Kai. You don’t need your dad’s cosign to live the life you want to live. You don’t need anyone’s cosign. You do what feels right to you. You’re a filmmaker, okay? And for what it’s worth, I’m proud of you. It’s not easy to step outside a path laid out for you. It’s pretty brave, actually. You’re figuring out your freedom and it’s inspiring. And one day that’s gonna be a real production clapperboard with your name on it.”  Malakai still hadn’t said anything, his gaze a hypnotic twilight.  “Obviously, if you’d prefer a framed picture of me that could be arrang —”  Malakai shut me up, kissing me with a ferocious sweetness that rendered me hot molasses. The kiss was so excruciatingly, exquisitely soft, so full with delicate but robust feeling, it made me want to cry.  I felt myself recline, the full force of that feeling pushing me back, my arms wrapping around his neck and pulling him down so his delectably warm weight pinned me to his bed and I felt his heartbeat sear through his T-shirt. I sucked his bottom lip and that seemed to set something divinely feral loose within him. His tongue licked with passionate and precise persistence in my mouth, like enough wasn’t enough, and I got wetter, got wilder, while the lovely, lovely thick length of his hardness pressed against me. It sent me savage as I wrapped my legs around him and ground my hips.  He tasted so dizzyingly good, so intoxicating, it felt like my consumption should be regulated. Just before the last remnants of our minds were lost, Malakai pulled back slightly to lean his forehead against mine, breath ragged. He pecked my lips sweetly, like he couldn’t help it.  “So you liked it?”  “Scotch, thank you. It’s the second-best gift I’ve ever got.”  “Second? You shitting me? What’s the first?”  Malakai bumped his nose so tenderly with mine that my breath stopped to bow in my throat in reverence.  “You.”  Chapter 24


“I ve never seen this place so rammed.”  ’

Sweetest Ting was teeming—Meji was so happy to host us he’d turned a blind eye to the liquor being poured into Sprites. Ty, Shanti, and Chi were up by the front, dictating their song suggestions, while Kofi curated a video playlist for the several-inch flat screen on the wall. Malakai was busy talking to some Third-Year film students about Cuts, the direction of his next film, lenses and frames and other things that made his eyes light up even more than their natural brilliance did. I had decided to throw a little campaign social to generate heat before the upcoming election and the event had blown up into a party before my eyes. Aminah sipped on her Coke. “Omo, you’re popular now. Get with the program. Hot girl on campus. Belle of Blackwell. People want to be wherever you’re at. After I posted the ProntoPic story of us here, my inbox was blowing up. They’re especially interested in you after you put Zack on blast the other day, and yes, while I was skeptical about you making Brown Sugar political, and, yes, we are yet to see how it will affect our audience numbers in the long run, it’s for the greater good. You’re helping them stick it to the Wasteman. “And it’s bringing people together because look at this place. You ever seen this many different social groups come together and mingle ever? You got a Bible Study Babe flirting with a reformed Roadman doing sports science, and I don’t think she’s trying to convert him.” “Unless speaking in tongues suddenly means something different.” I hitched a brow as said couple brought their lips together in the crook of the corner-most booth.  Aminah was right, factions had folded together and it was so seamless, I’d barely noticed it, cliques separated and mixing. Blackwell seemed more fun this way, more alive, less confined. I had put my internship in slight jeopardy but somehow I didn’t feel an inclination to spiral; something was shifting in real life. It didn’t matter how big our audience was, but who they were. People who cared.  Aminah handed me a jerk chicken pop and held hers up so we could smash them in a toast. “You did this with Brown Sugar. By announcing a new committee with all the girls, you were signalling something new, validating something new.”  I shrugged. “Maybe, but Brown Sugar would be nothing without you, and the marketing and the managing.”  Aminah waved a hand of dismissal while nodding at the same time, her long lashes accentuating the twinkle in her eye. “We’re a power couple, babes. Let’s just say that”—she nudged me—“even when you’re reconciling with old frenemies.”  “Wait. You feeling a way about that?”  I’d told Aminah that Rianne and I had been texting since we’d met at RomCon and she’d been nothing but cautiously supportive, still harboring a slight, protective grudge while encouraging of my peace. Like a mother whose child had taken up a hazardous sport.  Aminah shrugged. “No, because it would be insane of me to wonder if your best friend from childhood, with great bone structure, with whom you have nerdy pursuits in common, is going to replace me.”  I grinned. “Yes. It would be. I’m glad I made up with Rianne, but you’re my life partner and your roasting of my nerdy pursuits keeps me balanced.”  Aminah pinched my arm. “I bully you because I care. And I need you in my life to take me to quaint bistros like this to keep me grounded and cool.”  “It’s a diner.”  Aminah nodded without an iota of recognition. “Don’t know what that is, but this is cute. I like the vibe.” She flicked her gaze above my head and her eyes flashed teasingly. “Man, he just can’t stay away from you can he? If this is what he’s like before you guys have smashed—”  “Aminah.”  She wriggled her brows and somehow managed to elegantly climb over me and out of the booth just as Malakai reached us. “Newbie,” she greeted Malakai stoically.  He bowed his head. “Lady Aminah. You gonna accept my ProntoPic invitation now?”  Aminah shrugged. “I feel like there should be some boundaries between the spouse and the sidepiece but sha make it past the three-month mark I’ll consider it.” She strutted away toward where Kofi stood, eyes eager.  Malakai grinned as I scooted over for him. As he sat, he passed me my requested illicitly mixed rum and Coke and slung an arm around my neck. “I think she basically just said I’m like a brother to her.”  I laughed. “I heard it.”  Malakai cast an eye across Sweetest Ting, a broad smile lighting up his face. It lit me up too. “I always feel so at home here. With you. Ama would have never liked a spot like this.”  I bristled. “So? Why are you even thinking about her right now?”  Malakai’s eyes jumped, alert. “I’m not. I’m just saying I’m glad I can be me around you. I couldn’t do that with her.”  I’d piled my twists on top of my head and he gently tugged at a straggling twist from my Ankara headwrap. I stayed silent as I tried to work out the arithmetic of what he’d just said. The slight tension was displaced by an overwhelming scent of peony and mild disdain.  Simi stood by the booth. She tapped an elegant, milky, clawed finger on Malakai’s shoulder, chiming, “Girl chat! I am sure you don’t mind.”  Terrifying. I would have wondered why Simi was really here, but both reason and rhyme were beneath her, buckling under her powers of chaos. Malakai hesitated, his eyes flitting between Simi and me, before I hitched a shoulder. I once saw in a wildlife documentary that the best thing to do when facing off a wild lion was to stand your ground. Stay calm. Do not bend.  Malakai whispered in my ear, “Safe word is ‘Malakai, you sexy beast.’”  He scooted out of the booth. “That’s a sentence—and you’re the worst.”  Malakai grinned as he backed away. “I know.”  My smile remained on my face till I turned. Simi was now sat opposite to me, and her signature mild disdain had manifested into a smirk and a slight cock of her head. “You and Malakai are kinda cute.” She sipped her drink. “Especially considering you first kissed him to make Zack mad.”  Not quite true but still I froze, the blood rushing from my cheeks. “Wh- what are you talking about?”  Simi’s smirk widened as she brought out a rose gold flask and poured whatever was in it into her Coke. She took a sip and released a sigh of contentment that only worked to pull out goose bumps on my skin.  “Better. But now,” Simi continued, paying no heed to my question, “it’s clear that there is something real between you guys. I didn’t know what the endgame was for both of you. I thought maybe you wanted a fast track to popularity, and Malakai saw you as a ticket to cementing himself in Blackwell society.” She ran her eyes across me. “But you don’t need that. I mean, you’re not on the same level as me, obviously, but people rate you for some reason. It’s the reason people turned up here the night Zack is throwing a party in a pathetic attempt to regain public favor since you announced his contest on your show. Bravo, by the way.” She brought her hands together in two staccato slaps. “Nice work.”  My brain was too slow to catch up with all the Simi happening, and all I managed to muster in response was “I didn’t know he was throwing a party tonight.”  Simi flashed a sharp smile. “Irrelevant. You’re siphoning his power away, and that, sweets, is a good thing. My point is, it doesn’t matter why you and Malakai got into this thing. It’s real now.”  I stared at Simi, stunned into mortified silence, and she laughed. It wasn’t unkind, and it was the first time I had my defenses low enough to actually hear it properly. It was rich, husky, perhaps . . . warm? Was it ever really unkind or had I just presumed it sounded unkind?  “Kiki, I am a gossip blogger, a journalism student, and I’m gonna be an MA student next year. I’m the best in my year. I saw you and Zack that FreakyFridayz and I knew you had been hooking up. I was gonna step in, but I saw that you had it handled. Then you and Malakai had it handled.” Her smirk widened. “Really handled.”  I blinked, trying to digest all the new unexpected pieces of information, chewing slowly, trying to extract sense from them. “Wait, so why did you drag me the next day? And bring him to Ty’s? And leak that video to make me look bad?”  Simi was unruffled, an easy smile on her glossy lips as she reclined and sipped the mystery cocktail she’d just concocted. “I needed you away from Zack so I could do my job properly. And I figured he wouldn’t mess with someone who’d publicly embarrassed him. He’s vain. I came with him to Ty’s because I overheard him saying he was going to crash and I thought if it was with me, I could at least help to control the damage. I filmed and leaked the video to make him look bad. Which he did.” She sighed, apparently finished, the need to explain herself to me a tedious inconvenience. “Look, Kiki, I knew you’d be able to handle some infamy as collateral.”  I nodded slowly as embarrassment cleared way for elucidation. My eyes widened, suddenly finding their way to Adwoa as she chatted to Chi in another booth. She’d said her girlfriend was a blogger.  “Were you investigating him?”  Simi saw where my eyes had drifted; she gave a slight nod. “Right. By dating him. Well, by flirting with him enough to make him think we could date. I mean, we never did anything, but for guys like Zack the promise is enough. I’m Simi Coker. I have currency. That turned Zack on. I needed to get close to him to get the tea. I couldn’t continue to watch him fuck up my legacy. I worked hard when I was in office, and I watched him undo everything I worked for.” She leaned closer, eyes diamond and flint.  “He severed all the connections we built, all the events we did with ACSs across the region. He wanted us isolated so he could do what he wanted to do, which was to have it all completely under his control with racist Whitewell’s institutional backing. He’s corrupt as fuck. Which is why I never really understood why you were hooking up with him.”  I shook my head, trying to process the fact that Simi had partly orchestrated a systematic takedown of the most powerful boy on campus, that she was possibly—possibly—one of the coolest girls I knew. “If you knew I was hooking up with Zack this whole time, why didn’t you blow my cover?”  Simi looked me up and down like she was seriously considering the question. She found her answer and punctuated it with an elegant twitch of her shoulder. “I don’t really know. I think you remind me a lot of myself when I was younger.”  It didn’t seem like an opportune time to point out to Simi that I was only about fifteen months younger than her, so I decided to focus on the other truly shocking element of the statement, which was that Simi looked at me and saw similarities. All this time, I thought when she looked at me, she felt a visceral sort of, if not loathing then at least scorn, like that of an auntie who has spotted your bra strap slipping at church.  Simi’s darkly lined eyes were looking at me analytically, like she was some kind of queen of ancient, deciding which village girl should be her handmaiden. “I knew you weren’t hanging out with Zack for popularity because you did your best to hide it. I just could never figure out why. I guess that’s why I took it out on you sometimes. You’re smart. I hated seeing you waste your time on him. At one point I wondered if you were in on it with him, but that didn’t make sense. It didn’t match who I know you to be.”  I tilted my head. “And who do you know me to be?”  Simi took a bite of a yam chip from the sharing platter in front of me. Another surprise, as I’d never seen her eat carbs. I’d assumed she subsisted on the blood of First Years.  “A leader.”  I stared at her, trying to detect a hint of mockery but found nothing. Simi was a lot of things, and while she did sensationalize the truth sometimes on her blog, she wasn’t a liar. She went on facts. She didn’t give compliments.  After a few moments, I asked, “You fucking with me?”  Simi rolled her eyes. “Look, I may not have always liked you, but I’ve always rated you.”  “That why you called me Poetic Injustice?”  Simi chuckled at her genius. “Okay, that was funny.”  Unfortunately, it was, but I couldn’t let her know that. I schooled my face to remain mock straight.  Simi cackled harder, but in an attempt at peacemaking she shoved her drink toward me. I didn’t need it, but out of diplomacy, I took a sip. I immediately choked. “Did you put vodka and rum in this?”  She shrugged. “It needed a kick. Anyway, come on, Kiki. A little bit of rivalry is fun. I was toughening you up for your future. When I leave undergrad, I’ll need you to take over as Boss Bitch of Blackwell.”  “Boss Bitch? That’s not a political post.”  Simi was irritated by my slowness. “Yes, it is. It’s just unofficial. But aside from that, Adwoa and I have been talking.” I liked that she felt comfortable enough to drop Adwoa’s name with intimacy, like she’d always said her name to me.  “And what Blackwell needs is a strong presence to keep everyone accountable. Adwoa’s a great organizer, but she doesn’t want to be president. Ask her. She’s only doing it because you flat out refused when she asked you, and we don’t have better options. But I think you should do it. I’m going to warn you, Brown Sugar’s listenership might take a dive when you go all campaigny, but I will help you boost it. My touch is magic. “Kiki, I have watched for two years as Zack has run my kingdom to the ground. But he’s been stressed the fuck out since the announcement. He’s scared of you. That’s why he threw a desperate party tonight. You have a community mandate, and more importantly you care. You had the balls to call for a snap election. You’re a powerful girl and that’s the only kind I fuck with.” In a weird turn of events, it turned out I might like Simi. I felt warmed, although that might have been from the lethal tincture she had mixed. She stared at me oddly, frowning. “Ew. Please don’t cry. It’s embarrassing, and I will have to rescind my cosign. Will you run?” I weighed the notion in my mind and the horror I’d expected to detect wasn’t there. It intrigued me, sank into my thoughts better than anticipated. “I’ll think about it.” A genuine smile glimmered on her lips, just as her phone vibrated. “Good, because—” The smile faded as she squinted at her phone and scrolled. She looked up at me, stricken, before her eyes darted up and around the room. I followed and saw that everyone else’s attention was drawn to the white glare of their screens, their faces morphing from blurry, casual joy to intrigue to discomfort, to looking at me with scandalized curiosity or, worse, like I was an imposter in their midst. The restaurant was hushed now, harsh-edged whispers taking the place of the loud squawks and bubbles of enjoyment. My blood pounded hot warning into my ear. I felt like I could chew it. Something steely slid over Simi’s face—not unsympathetic, but briskly business. “Kiki. Listen to me. Your moves now are important. Don’t bend. Don’t cave. Remember, Zack is petty and small. He’s retaliating like this because he’s losing.” Something was definitely wrong. The music playing from the speakers seemed to have warbled, distorted, slowed. People were either looking at me or pretending not to. Aminah had showed up from nowhere and was grabbing my hand and pulling me out of the booth, saying something like “Let’s go now, babe, everything is okay”—which let me know that things were very much not okay. Chioma was grabbing my jacket and Shanti got my bag, and then I saw Malakai in the corner of the room, his eyes ripping away from his phone and immediately rushing toward me, assuring the girls that he would take over, that he would take me home.  Outside Sweetest Ting, the cold slapping up against my skin so hard it felt like a relief from the anticipatory heat in my body, I told everyone to please, please let me look at my phone, that I needed to face the source. Aminah tried to swipe my phone from me, and Malakai tried to convince me that it was best that I waited till we got back home.  “Give me your keys, Kai.”  Helpless against my glare, Malakai did as told and I immediately got into his car parked up outside Sweetest Ting, locking the doors as Aminah tried to get in. Something told me I had to be alone for this. I looked at my phone.

 ProntoPicLive @ZeeKing Wassup, guys [gentle, self-aware friendly chuckle and wave], it’s  Zack Kingsford here, your president and, I like to think, brother of  Blackwell. It’s been a while since I’ve done a broadcast. I’ve been  quiet. Been reflecting. There’s been a lot of drama lately. A lot of  accusations being thrown about. A lot of misconceptions. I’ve sat  back and watched them because lions don’t concern themselves  with the affairs of mice. Nelson Mandela said that. He was also a  great leader. But I just feel like enough is enough, and I feel like I  owe you all the truth. We’re a family. The first truth is that the debate with Whitewell Knights is truly  just a way to open up dialogue and to really make our presence  known within campus. How can we progress if we don’t unite? As  you know, I myself am of mixed-race heritage, being both Black  and white, and I consider myself a real emblem of what can happen  when we put our differences aside. The protests against the debate  are further proving stereotypes. That we would rather struggle than  seek peace. That struggle has become our identity. Let’s step away  from that. Like my hero Nelson Mandela did, I am trying to bridge  gaps. The second part I want to address really is . . . awkward for me.  [Another chuckle that quickly dissipates. Soft, vulnerable eyes  appear.] I really don’t like to make the personal political but it  seems that I have no choice. Kiki Banjo’s platform Brown Sugar has  been used to disseminate false information and to instigate a coup. I  haven’t been worried because I know I deserve to be where I am.  However, it is important to know that her platform isn’t neutral.  Kiki Banjo has her own personal vendetta against me. Kiki and I were embroiled in a relationship for a while.  Entangled, if you will. I ended it, and unfortunately Kiki has taken  some time to adjust. It saddens me because I really did respect her,  but it seems she is seeking vengeance by slandering my name and  getting the members of her coven to do the same. It has become a  witch hunt. They want to lynch me. We saw an example of this, with  her encouraging the thug Malakai Korede to attack me last  weekend. It’s a shame because I was truly trying to forge peace. Can  we trust someone so manipulative? Blackwell fam, please don’t pay  the lies any attention. Do the right thing, vote for Zack King . . .  sford. One love. Oh, and evidence of our relationship will be posted  on my ProntoPic stories, to prove my integrity.


I hadn’t sent any pictures of myself to Zack, but apparently, he had taken one of me, in my bra and panties, as I was pulling a dress on one time. You could barely make out my face, but, if you wanted to see me, you could. I wasn’t crying. I couldn’t. My muscles had stiffened, the air in my lungs, dense.  Malakai was knocking on the window, saying, “Scotch, come on.”  I unlocked the car. Aminah rushed into the back, squeezed my shoulder. I don’t remember much, but Aminah’s sweet assurances that she was already working on the picture being taken down, as if that was a remedy against screenshots and shares. Malakai was saying that he would kill Zack, but also, confusingly, that none of this mattered, which made me so angry, because if none of this mattered then why would he want to kill Zack? The irritation at the lie was something grounded that I could hold on to, so I held on to it, because the idea, the fact, that this was happening to me again, that somebody had wielded me against me in some kind of ego trip to fix their reputation, was too much for my mind to process, it would have plunged me in way too deep. I had to stay afloat. So I clung to my anger at Malakai’s well-meaning attempt at consolation, till it cloyed in my mind. My mouth was salty.  When he said, cautiously, gently into the silence, “Kiki, please say something,” I replied, “Don’t do anything to Zack that could get you suspended. Promise me.”  Malakai’s jaw tensed but he nodded. “Okay.”  Then I asked him to pull over so I could throw up.  Chapter 25


I threw my phone on the industrial carpet of the library, forcing myself to not tap the replay button again. I hitched my knees up and leaned back against the shelves, my head resting on some books about Bantu civilization. Speaking of Southern Africa, Nelson Mandela’s estate should sue at Zack’s audacity. It’s one thing to smear my name, but conflating Nelson Mandela’s legacy with your fuckery while you’re doing it? Unforgivable.  The video had already hit over a thousand views and I was pretty sure a good number of them were mine. It was masochistic, I know, but somehow, fully analyzing and processing the attack was the only thing that could give me anything close to relief. This was a calculated, vicious, aggressive ambush. Zack had known he was going to do this, known that the longer he held back, rock in a slingshot, the harder the knock, the further the reach, the deeper the wound. If my integrity was up for question then so was the election, and so was everyone who had anything to do with me—anyone who had come on the show as part of their campaign tour. I’d potentially messed things up for the whole of Blackwell. Simi’s suggestion that I run was now quite poetically comical. Brown Sugar’s subscribers were in a precarious flux since Zack’s broadcast, and way lower than I would need to get into the NYU program. I was fucked.  It had been two days since it happened and the library was the only place I’d left my room for. I missed lectures and seminars and screened dozens of calls and messages from Chioma and Shanti. Aminah was all but holding vigil by my door. Malakai had come by but I told him I needed space. He left and couldn’t have been out of the building before he sent a message.  KAI: I got you, Scotch. Know that. X

 Nothing would make me feel better. Nothing that anyone could say could make me feel less stupid for letting the same thing happen to me twice. The one thing I swore to myself I would never allow to happen. The minute I let my guard down, let myself get involved in Blackwell society, I was paying for it, and everyone else would pay for it too. Life was far easier when I didn’t talk to anyone but Aminah—unless it was unseen and through a mic and about what it means when a guy doesn’t like your pictures. I couldn’t believe that somehow, a guy had managed to weaponize his attraction to me against me again, like some kind of poisoned kiss that would always lead to my social demise.  My eyes were stinging again, filling again. I had been sat in my secret spot in the library for at least two hours. Thankfully there were plenty of things to keep me occupied. I was equipped with books about colonialism, Yoruba masks, the matriarchy in ancient African cultures, and half a granola bar. I’d already eaten today so if I saved the granola bar until tomorrow then maybe I could hide out here for like two days. Nobody would ever find me.  I reached behind me and pulled a book out at random. Heaven on Earth: Divine Power in Ancient Yorubaland. Maybe I could tap into my inner celestial being and transcend this situation totally, and rewind time so I was curled up in bed with Malakai, because I missed him, I just didn’t know what to do with us anymore, us felt trapped underneath the emotional debris of Zack’s chaos.  “Kiki—”  My latent powers must have been super potent because I hadn’t even turned the first page and they’d already been activated. I’d willed myself to hear Malakai’s voice. With a little bit of training, I could really run the world. I turned the book around. Was it some kind of grimoire?  “Scotch.” The voice was louder, and I looked up to see Malakai stood in between the two bookshelves. My heart leaned into its compulsion to leap at the sight of him, whatever the circumstance. Malakai sat next to me on the floor. The moment his arm curved around me, I turned to him, curling my legs over his, as he leaned his chin on my head, my body furling into the comfort of his energy. I inhaled deeply, taking in his scent, letting it soothe. “Look, Kiki, I know you said this was your safe space but the girls were getting worried. I was getting worried. I thought I’d try. Do you want me to go?” “No.” I sniffed and untangled myself from him, crossing my legs and swivelling so I was facing him. “Kai, I don’t know what to do. It wasn’t like all of it was a lie. But if I admit that some of it is true then people are gonna think that all of it is true and then there’s that fucking picture—” Malakai picked up my hand and let his thumb rest on my wrist. My pulse rose up to kiss it. His eyes went steely, and I could tell he was containing himself for my sake. His eyes dropped to focus on his thumb rubbing circles on my skin, as if in meditation, to calm himself down. “Kiki . . . the only reason I haven’t fucked Zack up is because I promised you I wouldn’t.” I shook my head. “I don’t need any more drama and I don’t want you to get in shit.” Malakai nodded and looked up. “Fine. But, Kiki, the picture was immediately reported and his account has been suspended. Aminah was on it immediately. And I’m not gonna tell you what to do because I can’t do that. But what I do know is that you have the strongest voice I know and I think you should use it.” The little energy I had left was used to laugh. I felt drained. “Who’s going to believe me? And now Brown Sugar and my summer program are in jeopardy because who the hell is going to listen to me giving advice with my fake boyfriend, when I’ve just been exposed as the biggest hypocrite on campus? I need a sustained high level of listeners and—what?” “Fake boyfriend?” Malakai’s thumb had stopped its circuit on my wrist. I blinked and rubbed my forehead. “You know what I mean—” “Nah, I don’t really, Scotch.” He shifted back. “This thing between us ain’t bigger than the show?” I froze. “Are you serious right now? The only reason we decided to do this was for the show and your film. Obviously now it’s different, but—” “Is it? What is this to you? Because, not gonna lie, it kind of feels like this thing between us only exists to you in relation to Brown Sugar.” I almost recoiled, tilted my head to the side. “I’m sorry. Are you asking me what we are right now? Right fucking now, Malakai?” It was belated, slow in boiling, but I realized that I was angry. Raging, in fact. The hurt had subsided and now I was pissed at Nile, at Zack, and apparently at Malakai for treating my attention as some kind of leverage.  Malakai’s eyes flashed with something that looked a little like hurt. “Kiki, I’m just saying . . . it low-key feels like you’ve had one foot out of this thing since we started. Like you’ve been waiting for a reason for it not to work. Why did you ask me if I was going to end this the other day? Did you want me to?”  I swallowed, something ugly forming inside me. I could feel it, stinging and agitating its way into becoming. It was the same way a boil formed to fight an infection, gathering every toxin together to expel it. In this case the infection was how much I liked Malakai Korede. So much that even now, I just wanted to call the fight off, put my face in his neck, and be held by his warmth. But I needed to protect myself. Malakai probably thought that what he felt for me was real—the same way Nile wanted me during the moment, the same way Zack had chased me—but it would melt away soon, be proven a fallacy and a fantasy and I’d be punished for letting my guard down. I couldn’t let that happen again.  “I don’t know. Maybe. Malakai. We’re attracted to each other. We hooked up. And maybe you want that to mean something more than it does —maybe that’s why you compared me to Ama.”  Malakai ran a hand over his face and stood up. “You have to be fucking kidding me. I knew you were pissed at that.”  I stood up too, and realized I really was pissed at that. It reminded me of Nile’s desire for me being contingent on the fact that I wasn’t Rianne.  “Do you like me because I’m not her?”  Malakai’s shoulders dropped and his eyes softened. “You can’t think that’s true, Scotch.”  I hitched a casual shoulder. “I don’t know what’s true. Like, do you want to be in a relationship so bad to prove that you can actually be in one? Is it even about me?”  Why was I saying this? Why was I doing this?  The words stung on their way out of my mouth, overflowing like something rotten. When they hit the air, they sounded fascinatingly cold.  Shock and hurt coalesced grotesquely on Malakai’s face. It almost knocked me off balance, almost made me want to eat my words immediately, force them down, but I didn’t. I let them sit, rancid in the air between us. His gaze bolted into mine, eyes raw, glacial, slicing right through me. “Don’t act like I made this thing between us up. Don’t fucking do that.” I forced my voice to come out strong, but I heard the crack of my heart threaded through it. “Kai, I don’t think we’re ready for whatever we think this is.” Malakai stared at me like I’d lost my mind. Maybe I had. “Why do you sound so reasonable right now? Like what you’re saying isn’t nuts?” “Like . . . when you’re emotionally freaked out your initial response is to shut me out. And you wanted to enter the film contest to prove something to your dad. . . . What if I’m just an extension of that? I’m not your therapy, Malakai.” He held still and ran his eyes across my face. Then he rolled his tongue in his mouth, and across his lips, as if to rid himself of words he might regret, maybe to wipe away any residual feelings, or maybe to clear his palette for the truth of what I said. My eyes were filling up and my stomach was turning, but I forced myself to continue pushing stinging words out. “The film is mostly done, and—” “Yeah.” His eyes dropped to my chin, his hands had slipped into his pockets. “Let’s just call it.” I could feel the atmosphere between us tilt. I knew I asked for this—the fact that I didn’t want this meant that I needed this—but this didn’t stop me feeling like I was sliding downward with nothing to grip on to. I had said words I did feel and didn’t feel and let them tangle up together. The emotional cacophony was making me nauseous. But I knew however I felt then would be better than how I would feel if I let myself enter us fully, and for him to later turn from me, rip it from under me, make me feel like an idiot for even believing in us. I wasn’t ready to risk it. I was right not to risk it. Because he obviously agreed with me. He was nodding, barely looking at me. “We just met two months ago. And we got lost in the game we were playing.” His voice was cold, mechanical, precise. “And maybe I did want to prove to myself that I’m different to my dad by being with you. And maybe this . . . thing was something you used to make yourself feel better about what happened to you in school.” I almost smiled through the sharp pain lacerating me. Finally. The dagger, the one I’d imagined being suspended in the air, waiting for Malakai to pick up and twist in me. It was a relief that he’d picked it up. The sentence hung in the air and Malakai’s eyes mellowed with regret immediately, shiny. His anger crumpled. He ran his hand across the back of his head.  “Shit. Scotch, I’m sorry. I didn’t mean—”  “You did. And don’t call me Scotch.”  The air between us stilled and cooled. Malakai levelled me with a sharp gaze that made my heart whir and then stop. He hit me with an empty, small, half smile that hooked and pierced my chest.  Then he laughed humorlessly, a frigid chuckle that turned my bones brittle. He rubbed his chin, looked at the floor.  “Okay. This is . . . I’m going to walk away now.” He started to back away, and regret flooded in, so quick and heavy I almost staggered with it.  “Malakai, wait—”  Malakai shook his head. “Nah, you’re right. We got caught up. I got caught up. That’s on me. I am not . . . I’m not made for this. Not right for this. It’s cool, Kiki.”  His voice was so forcibly light I had to blink a couple times to readjust myself to the dark that I realized had fallen around us. He was looking at me without looking at me, somehow seeing past me while staring into my eyes, and it hit me square in the gut, causing a seismic shift in my heart, crushing the butterflies that had taken up residence in there since I bumped into him outside the lifts two months ago. I wanted to grab his face and tell him that I was chatting shit, that there was no game, just us, but instead I watched him turn around and walk away. When his footsteps grew faint, I realized that I was out of breath, and that I was panting, and then I was sobbing. Chapter 26


“Is she even in there?” Chi’s voice flowed under my bedroom door, through the scent of burning incense and wispy R&B.  “I assure you,” I heard Aminah say, “she’s in there. I can hear Jhené Aiko playing faintly, and the tape I put on the door to let me know if she’s left the room is unbroken.”  “What’s that smell?” I could hear the wrinkle in Shanti’s button nose.  “Incense,” Chi said immediately. “Sandalwood and frankincense. So at least I know she read my message about the best thing to burn when you want to cleanse negative energy.” She knocked. “Babe! I brought crystals too! Amethyst!”  “Please, abeg,” Aminah was saying, her voice snapping into a brisk upper-class Lagosian lilt. “None of that juju shit.” She thumped on the door with what sounded like a closed fist. “Kikiola, if you don’t open this door right NOW, I will call your mother. I have had enough. Do you want me to stress Auntie out by informing her that her eldest child is having a meltdown?”  Low, but effective.  I flipped my covers, stared at the ceiling, and allowed the tears that had been filling my eyes to blur a little, before I blinked them away, slumped out of bed, and shuffled toward the door. When I clicked it open, Aminah was standing in her house athleisure with a hand on her hip and a wrap tied around her hair that contributed to the vague feeling that she was about to beat my ass. She was flanked by Chioma and Shanti, who were armed with wine glasses, a bottle of rosé, and a tub of ice cream.  “Cute pajamas.” Aminah ran her eyes across my tartan shorts and slouchy gray sweater. “Have you changed out of them in the past three days?”  “I love you guys, but please. I . . .”  I pinched the skin at the bridge of my nose and attempted to close my door. Aminah stuck her pink fluffy socked foot in the door frame. “Absolutely not. This, my dear, is an intervention.”  I opened my mouth to say I didn’t need one, but all that escaped was a sharp sob.  Aminah’s face immediately slackened. “Oh, baby.”  And that was all it took for me to burst out crying and collapse into her.  It had been almost two weeks since Zack’s broadcast and a week since what I now recognized was my breakup with Malakai, and I was forced to admit that my method of trying to preemptively avoid hurt by cutting ties with him had possibly been shortsighted. It had caused acute physical chest pain and every time I thought of him, I had a sweet, sharp soreness, like I was comprised entirely of a tangle of ulnar nerves.  I missed him so much my stomach twisted with it, the grip made tighter by what we had said to each other, precise shots fashioned from intimate knowledge, constructed to maim and fashioned from our own pain. They replayed in my mind like a horror movie, and familiarity didn’t lessen the sting. Not only had I potentially lost my show, my admission to the NYU program, and the respect of Blackwell, but I had also lost one of my best friends again, and this best friend happened to be a very good kisser. I missed the fact that I felt like I had my own personal sun when he looked at me.  “I said some really horrible stuff to him, guys,” I said as I sipped at my six-pound rosé, cross-legged on my bed. Aminah was cuddled up with me, Shanti was sat by my desk, and Chioma was busy strategically positioning crystals around the room. “Really, really mean—”  “Okay and he said shit to you too. You were mad at each other. So what? You’ll figure it out,” Shanti muttered as she scrutinized the contents of my makeup bag.  “Doubtful.”  I wanted to apologize, but every time I tried to type it out, his words of dismissal weighed on my fingers. We just met two months ago pressed on my thumb till it backspaced the whole message. We got lost in the game; it was an idiotic fantasy. That was all. I was still angry too. That he saw the relationship instead of me, that I was a tool to rectify daddy issues. It was for the best. I shook my head as if to rid myself of the now familiar pinpricks of hurt and loss.  “Anyway, it’s not just the Malakai thing. It’s the elections. I’ve messed it up for everyone contesting against Zack. Everyone who I stood with is sullied by association. And I really want to apologize to you guys for being an emo bitch this week. I was embarrassed. By everything. Embarrassed by Zack, embarrassed by how sad I feel about Malakai, embarrassed that I’ve messed things up for Blackwell.”  Aminah released me and sat up. “First, I don’t mind you being an emo bitch if you let me into your room. Second, there is nothing to be embarrassed by. Zack is a prick who shall be dealt with—and you and Malakai have broken each other’s hearts.”  I couldn’t help but laugh bitterly into my wineglass. “Malakai’s heart is not broken. I granted him his freedom. I’m sure he’s grateful he dodged a bullet.”  Aminah waved a hand in the air and kissed her teeth. “Please. Kofi told me that Malakai’s been a moody prick since you last spoke and refuses to talk about what went down. He just keeps saying, ‘It is what it is,’ which, like . . . what does that even mean? Because what is it?”  I digested this alongside a spoonful of cookie dough ice cream. It paired oddly well with the wine. I would, though, need some Pepto-Bismol later. Aminah was biased. Malakai being in a bad mood could easily have stemmed from a dent in pride. I refused to entertain the sadistic glimmer of hope that he was as cut up about us being over as I was.  “And as far as Blackwell goes”—Chioma sat and stretched herself along the foot of my bed—“you didn’t mess anything up. Everyone thinks what Zit did is dark.”  My mouth curled genuinely for the first time in a while. “Zit?”  Shanti nodded. “If you checked the group chat you would know that’s our new name for him. And exactly. People mass reported his account and Aminah’s pretty much scoured the Blackwell socials to check that nobody’s sharing the image. She’s convinced everybody that it would bring shame to them and their families to keep hold of it.”  Aminah put the bottle of rosé between her legs and twisted it open to pour herself a glass. “Shame is a powerful tool. Anyway, people are just confused because you disappeared. It just doesn’t seem like you.”  Chioma shrugged. “Maybe she just needed to align herself.”  Aminah snorted. “If aligning herself was only running out the room to get pizza from the door.”  Something was bothering Aminah, I could tell; her chuckle was soft and sad, but before I could press, Shanti interjected with a point of the tube of eyeliner that she’d procured. It was then I realized that she was examining every piece of makeup I owned before tossing those she deemed unacceptable into my wastebin.  “There are some dickheads, but I think mostly people just wanna know what’s going on. We’ll all be pissed if Zit’s fuckery actually does manage to affect the election and permanently fuck with Brown Sugar’s ratings, but I don’t think it will. Before this, our campaign was going great, and the other candidates are really putting the work in with their social media campaigns, which is good for us because it means legitimate competition and enthusiasm for things to change. Also, I feel like the whole Blackwell setup had shifted. Like, you get to uni and you just gravitate to the people who are most like you on paper, right? But I’m more than just bundles and perfect brows.”  I laughed. “Your brows really are perfect though.”  “Thanks, babes. I’ll do a tutorial just for you.” Shanti took a sip of her wine as I tried to figure out the exact ratio of insult to kindness. I figured it was exactly equal. Equal meanness and kindness tipped friendship into sisterhood.  “But seriously,” Shanti continued, “you enter into these groups and they become cemented and you feel like you can’t leave them, and then you’re hanging out with people who you don’t even really like.”  Chioma shrugged. “Honestly I really don’t vibe with a lot of the vegan girls; one time I switched to regular deodorant because the natural shit made me smell like . . . well, shit, and they acted like I was single-handedly murdering the planet. Also, they’re not that fun. I realized that I have a lot more fun hanging with you lot. I love you guys.”  I smiled. “I love you too.” My smile faded and I exchanged a loaded look with Aminah that she instantly translated. She gravely nodded her agreement. “Which is why I have to tell you guys something.”  Shanti quirked a brow and Chioma froze. I inhaled deeply and proceeded to tell them the real origins of Malakai and me. When I was finally done, Shanti and Chioma stared at me in blank confusion while Aminah sipped her wine in a rare moment of silence.  “Um. Did you guys hear me?”  “We heard you,” Shanti said, with the eerie grin.  Chioma shrugged. “Yeah, babe. You and Malakai were in a fake relationship to help you boost ratings for Brown Sugar to help your summer program application in exchange for you collaborating with him on his film —”  “But then you were actually in a ting,” Shanti finished, with a glint in her eye.  “Uh, right. And I didn’t mean to lie to you guys, and I didn’t expect to become such good friends with you and—”  “Lie to us?” Shanti smirked wider. I repressed a shiver. “Oh, honey. Thank God you’re pretty.” She shot a look at Aminah. “Does she genuinely think she was in a fake relationship this entire time?”  Aminah released a confusing cackle. “Babe, I know. It’s mad.”  Chioma snorted and her hand flew to her mouth, her clinking bracelets and bangles adding percussion to Summer Walker’s crooning.  My brows furrowed. There was a joke being told that I wasn’t in on. “Know what?”  Aminah continued as if I hadn’t spoken, waving a manicured hand in the air, “She’ll come to it eventually.”  I blinked. “Okay, I have no idea what you guys are talking about but I’m trying to apologize.”  Shanti swatched lipstick at the back of her hand. “Babygirl, it’s fine. Thanks for telling us. I get why you didn’t, though.”  Chioma smiled. “Right. You didn’t know we’d become gang. We know you, sis. It wasn’t like, malicious.”  Shanti shrugged as she tossed a nail polish bottle. My relief at their grace was strong enough to refrain from pointing out that I loved that color. “We still love you or whatever.”  My heart filled with warmth, the comfort of being seen and known displacing anxiety. “You guys are pretty fucking amazing.”  Shanti shot me a flat look. “No shit. Also, the plan was kind of genius. And it technically worked.”  Aminah nodded. “Yeah, before . . . everything . . . we were up by sixty percent.” She patted her own shoulder elegantly in congratulations.  “Plus,” Shanti continued, “you fucked Zack up. Thinking about it, Zit wouldn’t have done all this if he wasn’t intimidated by you. He’s literally printed out his face on flyers with a caption that says You know what to do. Dude is terrified.”  Chioma nodded gravely. “Shook. Your power is potent, queen.”  I felt myself returning to myself a little, the brightness of my friends forcing some perspective, easing the clouds. The self-pity was receding to reveal a gleaming fury that was primarily for Zack and his audacity.  Aminah scrutinized my face. “Okay. I see some color coming back to you.” She paused. “Metaphorically. Good. Because AfroWinter Ball is next Saturday and I’m going to need you to be ready for it. Kofi is still giving us his hotel room so . . .”  The mention of the ball gave me a genuine, hearty laugh that I was grateful for. “Oh. I’m not going to that.”  Aminah’s brow arched. “Are you joking?”  I smiled and my chin jutted out incredulously. “Are you joking? Going to the ball was something I was doing because I was with Malakai and it was part of the whole deal. Going to it now would just be humiliating.”  Aminah flipped both her palms up. “You’re unbelievable.”  “Um . . .” Chioma’s voice was quiet and tentative. “What’s going on?”  Shanti gently reached over for the ice cream tub I was holding, grabbed a spoon, and returned to her chair. “I think they’re having a domestic?”  I shuffled a little further from Aminah to assess her. “Meenz, what’s wrong, because I feel like you have something to get off your chest.”  Aminah sat very still and then started blinking rapidly at me in a very alarming manner, as if she was malfunctioning. Then she raised a hand and through her long, extended lashes she pincered me with eyes hard with love. “Kiki, this is not okay. First you shut me out for a week and now this? Why is Malakai the only reason you want to socialize? Was I not enough? You didn’t come to the AfroWinter Ball last year, and even though I went with some girls from my course it was shit without you! It’s a pattern! You bail on the most fun stuff in uni because you get shook! And I get it, but it’s time you let it go, okay? I am tired! Ó ti su mi. Sis, I am not going to let you miss out on this. Fuck, I am not gonna let myself miss out on a good time with my best friend. Which, by the way, I have. So many times for you.”  I blinked, stunned, her words sitting cool within me, sending up spindles of shame. “What? I never asked you not to go to events.”  Aminah rolled her eyes. “No, you never did. Of course, you never did, you would never do that, but you think it’s fun for me going out without my main? Most of these bitches are dull as hell.”  Her eyes drifted to Chioma and Shanti and she flashed them a quick, dazzling smile and rose a pacifying hand. “Not you guys, obviously. Other bitches.”  Shanti was texting with one hand and had a spoon in the other. She didn’t look up from her screen. “If I thought you were talking about me, this spoon would be shoved down your throat, my darling.”  Chioma flicked her wrist in a rolling motion. “This dialogue is healthy. Continue.”  “I love how much you’ve grown, Keeks.” Aminah’s voice was gentler now. “And I love that everyone gets to see the Kiki I adore. Your real nature has shone through; you bring people together. Look at Brown Sugar, FreakyFridayz! The elections that are happening! Blackwell is so much closer because of that. So, be part of what you bring together. Stop fighting it.”  I nodded, feeling my nerves soften, my edges curve, my breathing slow. She was right. I could do this. I was also being selfish—it was just cowardice. I wasn’t someone who hid anymore.  I poked her shoulder. “Hi. Have I ever told you that you’re the love of my life?”  Aminah beamed and wiggled on the bed before pulling me into a tight hug. “Yes, but it’s good to hear it again. Sorry I had to go savage on you.”  I laughed. “Please. I needed it.”  “Alright.” Aminah sat up, tone brisk. “Lovefest done. Now that I feel like you’re getting back to normal, I’m gonna need Killa Keeks to awaken.” She clicked her fingers in my face before picking up my phone from the bed and unlocking it with the passcode I didn’t know she knew.  I squinted and hissed like she was dropping lime juice on a wound. “No. Please, I’m not ready.”  Paying no heed to my resistance as I sat back on the bed, Aminah shoved the Brown Sugar inbox in my face. This seemed particularly cruel. I wondered if her showing me hate messages was like that training montage in Creed II where Rocky made Adonis punch the air over an open flame? Was she trying to toughen me up for the fight of my life? I blinked at the screen, ready to shove it away, when I saw the first message. Solidarity Queen! Don’t know what happened with you and Zack but we miss Brown Sugar.  I took the phone from her and scrolled. There were more messages like this—sandwiched, of course, between the expected misogynistic comments, but still, there were much less of those than I’d anticipated. And then something else that made my breath hitch and my hair stand on end. Messages from girls who had also dealt with Zack, who said that he also took pictures without their consent, that he lorded it over them, taunted them with the pictures if they broke things off with him or challenged him.  My palms were sweaty and I snapped up to shoot an inquiring look at Aminah. She nodded grimly.  All the remaining desolation drained from my body and was replaced with an all-consuming compulsion to kill, and if not kill, then to maim. My jaw clamped together. It was one thing to do it to me, but the fact that he’d been getting away with doing it to other girls . . . that he would likely go on to do it to other girls. The sadness that had stiffened my bones fled, the rage made me feel supple, fluid, and I felt myself melting into someone I recognized more. I’d allowed too many men to drive me to contort myself into a diminished version of who I was and could be. He had attempted to make so many women feel so small, so he could feel big, and it was going to be my pleasure to ensure we trampled him underfoot.  Aminah gasped and clapped her hands together. “Oh, it’s happening.”  Shanti smiled, something conspiratorial and curious. “What’s that look on her face?”  Chioma nodded sagely. “I think she’s summoning energy from the crystals.”  Aminah shook her head. “Nope. That’s Killa Keeks coming back with peppeh. What’s stage one?”  The plan was configuring in my mind, becoming solidified as something I needed to do rather than something I could do. It was sealed with fury and conviction. There was no choice in this.  “I need to meet with Simi.”  Aminah raised the back of her hand to my forehead. “It’s gonna take a while for her to fully recover, poor thing. Take your time, babe. You’re delirious.”  Chapter 27


 From: Dr. Miller  Subject Line: A Notice

 Ms. Banjo,

 I have heard about a recent ruckus on campus and I know you have exempted  yourself from class for the last two seminars. I want to send you a pertinent  reminder: You are an intelligent, powerful young woman, and any situation that  makes you feel lesser than is deceptive. Your power is in your truth. Stand in  yours. Be loud in yours. The numbers for your show have dropped, but I am  proud of what you have done with your voice regardless. I am also proud of  your contribution to Mr. Korede’s film. I have seen the rough cut. It is beautiful.  You make a wonderful team. I hope to see you next week in class.

 Warmly,  Dr. M



I was going to vomit. I’d been fine on the drive down with the girls—more than fine—all of us singing loudly, badly, to my playlist. It was fun, possibly one of the most fun times I’d had in uni, and for forty minutes I’d forgotten about things like heartbreak and social pariahdom. But it was clear to me now that those feelings were just hibernating till we pulled up to the car park of The Pemberton, where I was faced with Blackwellians stepping out of cars, dripping with sauce, posing for the cameras and poised for drama. My plan had kept me steady until this moment, balancing me out when I considered that showing up to the biggest social event on the Blackwell calendar might be too exposing and undoing for me. I told myself that there was too much at stake for me not to do it, and yet here I was, nauseous, palms and pits prickling, frozen by the car as the girls buckled shoes and did last-minute spritzes of setting spray and perfume. I was receding into myself again.  I wasn’t ready. I wasn’t ready to see Malakai. He was hired to film, so I knew logically he would be here, but emotionally I couldn’t comprehend the idea of seeing him. I’d missed him so bad that every time I saw something that reminded me of him I felt an alarming twinge in my chest. Turned out everything reminded me of him.  After a few moments, when the girls had finished preening, Aminah noticed me leaning against the car. “You okay, Keeks?”  “Mm-hmm, sure. I just . . .” I fanned myself even though it was around thirteen degrees. “I need a moment.”  Aminah stepped closer to me, regal in her purple, strapless, pencil-legged Ankara jumpsuit paired with black barely there heels and a compact deep violet gele that decorated her head. She’d gone over to a salon on Eastside to get it tied. She hooked a finger beneath my chin. “I know being here is overwhelming . . . and honestly, for all the shit I gave you . . . it really is tough being here with everything going on. But your plan is so great and I am proud of you and I love you and you look too fucking good to waste this outfit. Blackwell is not ready.”  I’d foregone a coat for the sake of the look, not wanting to sully my yellow two-piece Ankara outfit—covered in majestic blue and red birds of paradise taking flight—with something as tedious as pneumonia prevention. The sweetheart neckline crop top hugged and pushed what needed to be pushed, and my high-waisted skirt cinched and accentuated the curve of my hips. I couldn’t wear a coat over this; it would be an insult to my ancestors.  I smiled. “They’re not.”  “Have you guys finished making out?” Shanti was raising an impatient brow at us as she locked Mariah’s doors. She was in a blush-pink, structured ruro-and-buba-style fit, wide sleeves with geometrical shapes cut out at the hem, the softly glittery blush wrap skirt cinching her waist, gele decorating her head like a crown. Chioma was wearing an elegant jewel- green chiffon Nigerian bubu, cascading to the ground, wide and ethereal, giving her wings.  Chioma waved us over as Shanti said, “Considering I took the time to get each of us special phone ring-lights for tonight, you guys are being very disrespectful wasting precious selfie time.”  Chioma smiled and inhaled deeply as she gazed at the three of us. “I have a good feeling about tonight, girls. Good vibes, good energy. Sweetness and sisterhood in the air. Can you smell that?”  Aminah took a whiff, her expertly highlighted nose tilted up to the early moon. “I can smell weed and . . . suya? Simi may be many things but she snapped with the catering.”  Chioma winced. “As long as the veggie option isn’t carrot sticks and hummus again.”  Shanti playfully rolled her eyes, artistically shadowed to mimic a summer sunset. “Maybe you should grow up and eat meat. You’ve had worse things in your mouth.”  Chioma gasped, and I cackled and linked my arm through hers. “Speaking of, who do you have your eye on tonight?”  Shanti nudged Chioma in placation. “How about AJ? He’s coming tonight, saw it on his ProntoPic story. Doesn’t he play djembes in some post-grad Afrofusion band? Sexy as fuck. Thick muscles. Thighs that could crush a coconut. Pounding those drums with finesse. Imagine how he’d pound your—”  I squealed, “Ashanti?”  Shanti cackled. “Whatever. He’s premium red meat, though.” She shot a teasing look at Chioma. “Not suitable for veggies.”  Chioma shrugged. “Maybe I’ll make an allowance for tonight. Gotta get my protein in somehow.”  Aminah, Shanti, and I gasped in glee before we all collapsed into filthy squawks, heels clicking a happy, haphazard percussion as we made our way to the hotel.  Chapter 28


“I m still not sure about Simi’s involvement. How do we know we can  ’

trust her for sure?” Aminah’s voice was angled with dry skepticism as I situated myself behind the DJ deck on the stage where Kofi had configured a complicated technical setup for live broadcast and ignored the curious looks being thrown my way.  “Look, the pop-up Brown Sugar episode was my idea. Besides, she wouldn’t let me take up any extra attention at AfroWinter Ball, her event, if she didn’t think it was necessary. You know she hates sharing the spotlight. She believes in this. And she’s been really cool these past few weeks.”  Simi had been checking in once a day to ensure I wasn’t bottling it and to also remind me that she doesn’t back losers, and her reputation was at stake too. So, she was supportive like a vaguely emotionally distant aristocratic parent of a perpetually disappointing child. She’d sent out a memo to the Blackwell populace as soon as I’d told her what I wanted to do.

The Teahouse Wassup, Blackwellians. It’s your girl, Simi, and looks like Kiki  Banjo is coming out of hiding to give us some sugar for the tea  we’ve all been dying for, with a special Brown Sugar episode at the  AfroWinter Ball! Get your tickets now! Proceeds as always will go  to the Sickle Cell Foundation. Looks like it’ll be a night of glamour,  drama, and mess, and I for one cannot wait. See you there!  Simi might as well have called the episode “Kiki Banjo Tells All.” She insisted she needed to make it sound salacious to draw people’s attention, and perhaps she was right. The room was packed, and as I gazed across it from the stage, I felt a little woozy from all the looks being thrown up at me in anticipation. It was strange looking down at them, shiny and colorful and beaming. I felt separate, and it didn’t feel right. I didn’t understand how I ever felt right before, preemptively cutting myself off from connection, choosing to feel nothing to avoid feeling hurt.  Aminah twitched her shoulder and sipped on a Lagos Island Iced Tea (same as a Long Island Iced Tea but generously free-poured), while passing me a Dakar Daquiri.  “Fine, I trust her if you trust her.” Aminah’s eyes drifted across the room. “Plus, I have to admit, the girl knows how to throw an event.”  Draped upon tables were mock prints of traditional patterns from different Black nations, each one named after a capital city; Chi and Shanti were sat at ours, Addis Ababa, with Ty and AJ hanging on to their every word as Kofi vacillated smoothly from amapiano to Afrobeats. It was an Afrotopia, Nkrumah’s dream, compacted into a midsized event hall often used for regional corporate seminars.  It was while eyeing the room that I noticed a ripple in the atmosphere of the hall. I craned my neck to see who had entered to cause the shift, the thickening crowd turning toward the entrance. Simi stepped in, resplendent and refined in a strapless pink Ankara ball gown that poofed at the waist, glitter eyes, looking like both the competition and the prize, and on her arm was Adwoa in a black tux with kente trimmings, dapper, head half-shaven, crisp, with intricate cornrows crisscrossed on the other side of her head, cumulating into a ponytail of plaits.  I grinned as Aminah gasped. “What?” She turned to me, eyes wide and incredulous. “You knew and didn’t tell me?”  I shrugged. “I didn’t know know. Besides, I didn’t think it was for me to tell.”  Aminah leaned against the table and rapped elegant fingers beneath her chin as she squinted at the couple in fascination and awe. “This is such an iconic relationship reveal. Dramatic, glamorous. No questions need to be asked because this is the full statement. PR genius. I think I like her so much more now.” Simi kissed Adwoa on the cheek before immediately snapping into organizer mode and making a beeline for the stage. The crowd parted for her, her power and ironic imperviousness to gossip searing through it, her sharp eyes terse and deeply painted lips pulled into a brusque line. She hitched the skirt of her dress up as she floated up the stairs and toward the table I was sat at. She flicked a vaguely approving look at my outfit, before nodding briskly. “Okay, so you know the schedule? Dancing, chilling, and then you’re on for half an hour while dinner is being served, just before the AfroWinter Ball royalty announcements. I have all the technical stuff set up. Are you set? Because I really can’t deal with you bothering me with questions throughout this thing.” Aminah took a sip of her drink and muttered, “I’ve changed my mind about the last part.” Simi ran her eyes across Aminah. “By the way, I don’t want any extra drama tonight aside from the one that I have agreed to, so if you’re going to fight with your little DJ about how he’s flirting with Zuri Isak right now, please wait till after the party, because music is kind of necessary to this whole thing.” Aminah’s face fell and we turned to look at the DJ booth to see that, indeed, Zuri Isak, in a dress fashioned from kanga that boasted a deep plunge and a fitted silhouette, was tilting her head and pointing to Kofi’s deck in a way girls did when they were asking questions about things they didn’t give a shit about to cajole a man’s attention. Zuri slipped in front of Kofi and he leaned over to her to show her the various buttons and sliding knobs, then, in a devilishly artful move, she turned around so their lips were precariously close to each other’s, and giggled. If I wasn’t loyally horrified, I would have been incredibly impressed by the smoothness of her technique. Aminah and I gasped simultaneously. My mouth dropped open. “What the fuck?” Aminah’s voice was level and dark. “Is he serious?” Simi sighed as if this was all slightly plebian theatrics. “Alright, well. I’m going to go and make sure everything is okay at the voting station. I’ve made precautions to ensure that Zack hasn’t gotten to the counters and promised them access to his table at FreakyFridayz but best to keep across it. I’ll see you later.”  She hesitated before putting a light hand on my shoulder and squeezing, then swiftly and elegantly sashayed away.  Aminah scratched the side of her nose and smiled widely, nodding rapidly, terrifying with faux nonchalance. “This is why he’s a DJ, innit.”  I chilled. Earnest use of British slang? She was beside herself.  She pulled up a chair and sat beside me. “Of course he’s good at spinning when all he does is spin lies and deceit.” I refrained from saying that DJs didn’t actually spin records anymore.  “Why wouldn’t man wanna be a music producer,” Aminah said, “when all he knows is to push people’s buttons?”  Aminah was jabbing the air with sharp acrylics, eyes narrowed, making her lashes look like fanned daggers as she stared in the direction of Kofi. Indeed, when I turned to pree what she was looking at so I could tell her that it surely wasn’t as bad as it seemed, I was faced with Kofi’s arm around Zuri as she held a headphone pad to her ear. Kofi’s gaze flicked toward Aminah’s almost imperceptibly, before turning back to Zuri.  I bit my lip. I didn’t think I’d ever seen Kofi give attention to a girl that wasn’t Aminah. “Huh. Okay. Yes. He’s trying to make you jealous. Which is a really dick move that doesn’t sound like Kofi. Did something happen between you guys?”  Aminah’s mask of fury shook a little, and I caught a glimpse of something softer. She took a hold of it, fixed it properly on her face, and frowned. “Why does something have to have happened? Why can’t you just accept that he’s being a prick for no reason?! Stop trying to rationalize this, Kiki. This isn’t one of your Brown Sugar dilemmas. Is it because you made up with Rianne that you’re feeling all kumbaya?”  I looked at my best friend and saw the hurt that she didn’t want me to see. I leaned in closer to her and held her hand. “Do you want it fixed?”  “No. I hate him.” But her eyes were glistening, anger weakening.  I nodded, hearing her loud and clear. “Okay. Then we’ll fix it. Walk me through it.”  Aminah sighed. “Alright. So, um, we were talking by the bar when Osi came up to—”  “Osi? First Year Osi?!”  Osi Ummoh was the last guy that had got Aminah stressed—a theatre and lit student, as tall as he was vacuous, actor by study and actor by personality, presenting himself as the perfect boyfriend to Aminah and three other girls on campus simultaneously. He didn’t cheat but he was close enough to it to drive Aminah to distraction till the trance broke. “Yes, Keeks, that Osi. So, we were right next to him, and I had planned on ignoring him, but then he was all, ‘Hey, Disney, looking good,’ and you know Disney was his nickname for me, right? Because he said I reminded him of a Disney Princess. Anyway, I rolled my eyes, yes, but I smiled a little, you know? Because Osi is still fine as hell. Then he was like, ‘I miss you. It would be good to catch up these days.’ And I was like, ‘What we gonna talk about? How you fucked up a good thing?’ and Osi was like, ‘Maybe.’ And then he smiled and walked away. That was it! That is all that happened. And then suddenly Kofi starts acting all weird, just moving mad awkward, and says, ‘What was that?’ And I said, ‘What was what?’—and he goes, ‘Aminah, are you serious right now?’ And then it’s time for his set to start and I come here and then the next thing I know he’s basically smashing Zuri Isak on top of his decks!” Aminah paused to take her breath and skip a look across me. “Okay, what? What? Why are you looking at me like that?” “Um.” I folded my hands together on the table. “I just want to clarify that Kofi was there the entire time that this interaction occurred with Osi?” Aminah looked less indignant. “Uh, yeah—” “So, I just wanna break it down. Kofi was stood there as you flirted with your ex-boyfriend? Who didn’t acknowledge his existence? And you didn’t bother to introduce Kofi.” Aminah swallowed. “When you put it that way it sounds bad but . . . we aren’t even technically together.” “Uh-huh. So then why are you pissed that he’s flirting with Zuri right now?” Aminah’s face fell. “Oh shit.” “Do you want to be with him or not?” “Obviously!” “Who is it obvious to?” Aminah’s lips parted to speak but nothing came out. I moved closer to her, squeezed her arm. “MiMi, Kofi has always been straight up about his feelings for you. He probably thought you guys were getting closer to getting to be a thing and then, well, you kind of mugged him off. Tell the truth, you knew talking to Osi would make him a little jealous, right?” Aminah shrugged. “Yeah, but that’s our thing! He chases, I tease.” “So maybe he’s tired of chasing. Maybe he thinks that this is just a game to you.” “We talk every day! I even made him a cup of tea once!” I nodded. “Oh yeah. That time he came round with your favorite Chinese food because you were working late on some coursework and he knew you were running on fumes.” Aminah stared at me. “Whose side are you even on?” I laughed and grabbed her shoulders, shook her a little. “Yours. Always yours. And that includes not letting you get in your own way and helping you accept that shit doesn’t have to be complicated to be real. Like, you already know you want to be with him—why do you think there has to be work involved to validate it, you know?” Aminah rubbed her temple. “Wow, I am sobering up quickly. I’m gonna need a Timbuktu tequila shot after this. I hear you. I really do. I just feel like if there’s no work involved then he won’t appreciate me enough. I see how my dad takes my mum for granted sometimes. You should hear how he speaks about her. I mean he loves her, don’t get me wrong, but he’s always like, ‘She’s safe, she’s reliable, I can always count on her, she keeps the home running.’ As if she’s some kind of generator, expending energy to keep everyone else running. But what about her energy? I just feel like if Kofi has to put work in, he’s more likely to, like, cherish me. I want to be cherished.” “Meenz. Kofi is obsessed with you. And besides, you cherish yourself. I cherish you. And if it turns out that he doesn’t treat you how you should be treated then you have the option to bounce him out your life. And I’ll kill him.” “Thank you.” “But you have to at least try. You have to take the risk.” Aminah sniffed and dabbed the corners of her eyes with the edges of her palms. Excessive alcohol made her extremely emotional. “Shit. You really are good at this.” I grinned. “I know, right? Being in a fake relationship that turned into an ill-fated real relationship gave me true insight.” Aminah burst out laughing, which I found a little rude since I was doing some really deep, introspective, emotional reflection and unpacking. “Um, what’s funny?”  Some residual giggles were still falling out of my best friend’s mouth and I waited (im)patiently for her to get them all out. I almost preferred it when she was crying. Aminah shook her head slowly. “What’s funny, Keeks, is that you’re still saying fake relationship.”  “So?”  Aminah tilted her head to the side. “Oh. Oh, honey. That was never, ever a fake relationship. If that boy was ever faking how he looked at you, then Daniel Kaluuya better watch out because there’s a new fine-ass Oscar winner in the village.”  I followed her direction to see Malakai filming people talking by the bar. He slowly moved with the camera and landed on me. He froze. Even with the distance I saw the latent heat in his gaze. He nodded infinitesimally at me in greeting, so tiny that I could have missed it, so tiny that it was heavy.  “Hi,” he mouthed.  “Hey,” I mouthed back.  I allowed myself to risk the head rush of fully taking Malakai in. He was wearing crisp navy trousers and a kaftan, tailored to perfection, and even at my vantage point, I could see the intricate, twirling embroidery on the lapel of the high neck, see the way the material fit around his thick arm in a way that made me want to grab on to it and swing like fruit ready to drop, before I did drop into his lap, where I could pull him closer and kiss him. His thin gold chain winked at me, conspiring with the gleam of his cufflinks.  All of me leaped and unfurled and unleashed: all the missing, all the anger, all the hurt, all the . . . that heavy, soft thing, the pink matter of the matter. Fuck. I was falling, had fallen, when had I fallen? Was it a process, or was it an instant, or did time warp and rupture around us? Because whatever we were defied physics. Which was why falling in love with him had felt like I was shooting up and above and was light and full but not weighed down. I was in love with him. I was in love with a boy that I had thoroughly fucked it with.  Someone tapped Malakai’s arm, asking for a picture, and he tore his eyes away from me. I was breathing hard, my pulse pounding in my ears, feeling an odd storm of happiness at the sight of him and heartbreak at the loss of him, because somehow, I knew that our argument was both of our insecurities colliding, that the mess wasn’t the sum of us, the sum of our possibility. It was part of it, and that was okay. We were beauty within the mess. I pushed him away because I was scared he would hurt me and he let me because he was scared of the same. We were too scared to talk it through, lashing out to protect ourselves and hurting ourselves in the process. What was it that he had said when he walked away from us? That he wasn’t made for this? Wasn’t right for this? I should have said that we would learn how do this together. That he was so sweet and so kind with this. He was so right for me it was like he was made for me. I should have said, I think I’m right for you, Kai. I think we operate at a higher frequency when we’re together. Our energies fuse and we become supernovas. I think we have so much more to share and to give. I think we’ve barely even begun. To not give us a chance would be a shame, a waste, a tragedy.  I took a large gulp of my drink. “Oh my God, Aminah. I think . . .”  Aminah had been watching me and she pinched my waist. “I know.”  “What do I do?”  She scraped her chair closer to mine and leaned her head on my shoulder. “Take the risk. Be my Killa Keeks.”  Chapter 29


“What’s good, Blackwell? Welcome to the first ever ‘Live Brown Sugar Session,’ an episode made in conjunction with tonight’s AfroWinter Ball— thanks again, Simi, for this opportunity.” Simi raised a glass elegantly from her table, and looked around demurely at her constituents, accepting silent praise. I forced smooth joviality into my voice and let the words melt over the mic as my skin prickled from the spotlight on it, the intensity of eyes on me making my nerves spark. There was a light smattering of cheers, conveying curiosity more than excitement. I put the mic on the stand and clapped my hands together. “So, normally, I’m reading you guys confessions and giving you my feedback. But I think for this episode it should be the other way round. I’m sure you all watched the video that our dearly beloved petty king Zack released last week, and I’m sure you all have some questions. I thought I’d lay it all out now.” I inhaled deeply. “Uh, first of all yes, it’s true, Zack and I hooked up for a few months.” Oh, now the crowd had found their voice?! Gasps and murmurs vibrated through the crowd, people turning to each other, whispers of “I told you so” and “rah” rippling through the room. Zack wasn’t here yet; apparently every year he arrived just before the AfroWinter Ball royalty was announced. I cleared my throat. “But, uh, contrary to what he implied, I did not catch feelings. Actually, if there is one thing I have a violent allergy to, it is feelings for Zack Kingsford. Like, even saying that sentence is making the inside of my throat itchy.” I coughed a couple of times, and the crowd’s laughter grew warmer. I grew bolder.  “It wasn’t a relationship. It was just, well, I don’t know what it was. I want to say it was fun, but honestly? When I really think about it? It really wasn’t that fun.” I shrugged. “It was a means to an end, but actually . . . well, I never achieved the end I hoped for, if you know what I mean.” Guffaws now and knowing hums from the girls. “It was an end I could have achieved by myself. With less talking.” I pulled a face and it pulled in more laughs.  “Thing is, Zack thought he could get away with his lies because he thought I would be too freaked out to tell you guys this. He banked on my silence.”  I pressed the clicker in my hand and the projector behind me flickered alive. It flashed screenshots of texts that dozens of women had sent me with their names and photos blurred. Clear as day though, was Zack’s number, alongside aggressive texts in which he taunted these women, threatening to expose explicit images of them. The picture that Zack had posted of me was in the middle, unblurred. There was a collective sharp inhale, some murmurs, some heckles. I almost buckled. I looked to the side of me to see Aminah making an okay sign with her fingers and gesturing to the two emergency shots of tequila she had waiting for me.  I took a deep breath, wet my lips, and continued. The crowd had settled now, hooked on my every word.  “Some of these pictures were sent, and some were taken without consent. Either way, none of these women deserved to be taunted with them or blackmailed. He is weaponizing our sexuality against us. Zack Kingsford is a misogynistic pig. Silence emboldens him. He is weak and afraid of the truth. He’s afraid of us. Our voice.  “And aside from this, he has his own agenda and it has nothing to do with the good of Blackwell. If he wants to cozy up with the Whitewell Knights to get fast-tracked into being a token Black mascot at a soul- sucking law firm, well, be my guest.” The audience was electrified again, thunder looping through the room. “But what we won’t allow him to do is use Blackwellians’ integrity to do it. We are better than that. We deserve better than him. Whoever you vote for next week just please bear that in mind. We deserve a leadership that cares. We aren’t a mechanism to feed somebody’s ego. “We’re a community, a movement, and a family. Family don’t sell each other out. Family are honest with each other, and when we’re not, we put our hands up and come clean. So, I’m coming clean, and I really hope you guys will give me a fresh chance and Blackwell a fresh chance in the upcoming elections. Let’s make the right decision for our family and rid ourselves of the real Wasteman of Whitewell. I want to thank all the amazing women who trusted me enough to help share their stories. You’re incredible. And I would also like to note that the screenshots have been reported to the school board by us.” There was uproarious applause and foot stamps and, while I was tempted to be bolstered by the energy, I knew I hadn’t finished. I waited till it died down to add, “Um, also . . . I really, really appreciate you all for supporting Gotta Hear Both Sides, but I can’t be a hypocrite anymore, so in the spirit of transparency . . .” I inhaled deeply and my gaze roamed the crowd to see Malakai stood at the back of the hall, looking straight at me, a hand in his pocket, face carefully inscrutable. “Malakai and I didn’t start off as a couple.” I nodded at the harsh, hushed shock that flowed through the tables. “It’s kind of a long story but . . . we pretended to be in the relationship for Gotta Hear Both Sides. And I thought . . . there was no risk in faking because I really didn’t think Malakai and I would work.” Malakai was now looking at his phone, eyes hard. Was he even listening? He glanced up at me for a second, expression unreadable, before he turned away and walked out the doors of the ballroom. In some kind of weird display of masculine solidarity, some other male members of Blackwell left with him. Was that Ty and Kofi? My heart cracked. I had to stay. This was bigger than us. I felt sick. Was I shaking? I heard a heckle from the crowd. “I’m sorry, you basically lied to us? For weeks? And we’re meant to be cool with this?” The sentiment caught on and the tone of the crowd was more nebulous. I curled my hand into a fist in order to retain my nerve. I shook my head. “No, you’re not meant to be cool with it. It was a shitty thing to do. I didn’t respect you guys like I should have. And I think, I . . . thought everyone else was performing romance so what I was doing wasn’t technically wrong. But the truth is . . . you lot are so cool and so brave for just going for it. Letting yourself feel. I missed out on so much for so long because I was scared of doing that.”  The tables were silent, looking at me contemplatively, trying to figure out whether they hated me or not. That was fair. Aminah attempted a slow clap that Chioma and Shanti tried to join in on from their table, but it quickly dissipated into a weak patter when they realized nobody was willing to build it to an applause.  I wet my lips. “Uh, so, anyway . . .”  Someone put their hand up and Simi signalled at someone to pass them a mic. I said it was an open forum and anything went. The person was Zuri. I instantly regretted the decision.  “Okay, I hear the political shit, and we care, and we agree that Zack is a Wasteman but . . . back to you and Malakai, you were faking this whole time?”  I’d committed to honesty, and there was a picture of me in my underwear on the screen behind me so I figured that there wasn’t much more to expose. Malakai had left the room, but the truth was still the truth. Blackwell had told me so much about themselves. I owed them the same vulnerability.  “Well. No. We became a real couple. And . . . actually, I don’t think I was faking any of the time. I just didn’t know it. From the moment I met Malakai it’s like something fundamental in me knew. He’s thoughtful and gentle. He has a stillness that calms me. He’s infuriating and he makes really corny jokes and he makes me smile even when I don’t want to. Especially when I don’t want to. And I tell him he’s the worst, and he is, because he’s annoying, so fucking annoying, because there is no hiding when I’m around him. Completely fucks up my guards.  “He’s the worst in the sense that he’s the best. And I think I lashed out at him because I was scared of how much I liked him. It’s kind of a mess. But I’ve decided that I’m good with that. Sometimes beautiful things get messy. Mess is okay. I learnt about myself. I’ve learnt to let myself enjoy things. I’ve also learnt how cool it is to like someone and be liked back.” I released a wan smile.  “I’ve learnt to trust that I can be liked with no agenda. Knowing that in theory is different to knowing that in practice.” I inhaled deeply and pushed out brightness onto my face, dug up from my reserves. “So . . . are we good? Or do I need to spill all my tea right now?”  The audience seemed to forgive me, and more congenial murmurs filled the hall, quiet discussion loosening the tension just as Aminah rushed to the stage. She grabbed the microphone from my grip while I stared at her in confusion.  “Hi, all! It’s MinahMoney on the mic! Producer and PR extraordinaire. Wassup? Okay, so as you know, this is a live Brown Sugar show with a twist. Later on, we’re allowing people to send questions, put their hand up, or call in to ask for advice or request a bop. But first, we have a sponsor that would love to play a message. Okay. Thanks!”  Aminah winked at me and assiduously ignored my mouthing of “What the fuck?” She nodded at Simi, who had somehow situated herself behind the tech desk without me knowing. Simi nodded professionally and the lights dimmed further as the screen behind us blinked, changing from Zack’s exposure to . . .  My heart flipped and my stomach dipped.  Untitled appeared in stark white letters across a black backdrop. I already knew it was a clip from Malakai’s film before it started rolling. It was even more stunning than what I had seen in the edit suite. Gorgeous vignettes of tessellating-toned, brown-skinned people, kaleidoscopic sizes and shapes that formed a deep, rich, bright texture, their voices overlapping and then separating to tell their stories. Blackwell denizens at parties, in the push and pull of attraction, swelling up with it till it made their skin glow with it. In campus cafés, at the libraries, on the quad. People in the audience laughed and cooed as they recognized themselves.  And then, there was my voice, speaking on a neo-soul instrumental that Kofi composed. “You know from the songs I’ve listened to . . . I feel like relationships are in the seeing. I think everyone just wants to be seen and to find someone who they enjoy seeing. Like . . . seeing them brings them joy.” And then, Malakai’s camera was on me, laughing at one of our dinners at Sweetest Ting, me sticking my tongue out at him across a lecture hall after he surreptitiously brought out his camera, me slicking lip gloss on my lips in my mirror, the reflection showing him mouthing a “damn” that I rolled my eyes at, my smile repressed. My chest felt tight, in a good way, like my heart had expanded, filled all the way up. “And isn’t it a trip,” I said, “when you find someone who you like seeing and who sees you?”  Now, I had taken the camera from Malakai, filmed him putting his durag on, swiped it to film him while he was watching Boyz n the Hood, by his hero, John Singleton, the focus on his face, his mouth shaping his favorite lines, his eyes lighting up with inspiration, the bright in the deep. I’d focused on his lips.  “It’s such a miracle that people write songs about it. People pine for it. People get scared and sabotage it. People plead for it back, fists clenched, breaking it down in the middle-eight. Man, I just feel like the whole thing . . . the love thing . . . demands that you’re brave. Seeing people for what they are can be scary, that’s like . . . full investment. Responsibility. You have to care and be committed to the care. And you gotta care even while preparing for the fact that they’re not going to fit into your idea of perfection. Is it worth the risk? I don’t know. Only you can know.” A pause and then I say while laughing, “Shit, that was deep. Now here’s ‘Thong Song,’ one of the greatest love songs of all time.”  Malakai had filmed during Brown Sugar. I’d got up and mouthed the lyrics to “Thong Song” with passion, eyes squeezed, fists closed, looking completely goofy and completely happy.  I bit my lip now and laughed. I liked seeing myself like that. I liked seeing Malakai see me like that. Then, there was Malakai sitting in a booth at what I recognized as Sweetest Ting. It looked like he was filming himself. He rubbed his neck and leaned forward.  “So, uh, when I started making this documentary, I really thought relationships weren’t for me. I almost approached it like . . . a wildlife documentary, right? I wanted to observe and understand why people would put themselves at risk of hurt like that. Why they would want to be tied to another person. Why anyone would even try. But then I met this girl.” Malakai smiled to the camera, his eyes full of something so warm and heavy and precious, my own started to fill too. “I met this girl with the sharpest, sweetest mouth and the biggest heart. Soft and tough and shy and bold. Beautiful man, so beautiful. And . . . she made me want it. Really want it. And I figured . . . that’s why people do it right? Be vulnerable and shit. Because they want to be close to the person who makes it worth it. It’s about connecting with someone who makes you want to try. And she made —makes me want to try.  “And me and this girl had an argument. It was rough. We both said really harsh things to each other, I dunno. I . . . my skin was inside out for her and that was the first time I really clocked it. I got scared and I backed her into a corner. She was going through something, and I didn’t give her space to feel that. I was thinking about myself. I’m always saying that I got her. But when she needed me . . . I didn’t have her in the way I promised myself I would always have her. And I’m shook I lost her because she is the best thing. The best fucking thing. “Anyway, I’ve been wracking my brain trying to figure out how to let her know how I feel, and then I remembered, in one of her shows she said that it just has to be true to you, just has to be real. Say it in the way you know how. So this is what I know. I know how it feels when I get the perfect shot. When the light hits a certain way, and someone’s expression is the perfect display of emotion. It feels like you’ve hit on something sacred. That’s how I feel when I look at her. She’s the perfect shot. And the perfect shot isn’t about something being flawless, it’s about the truth. She’s the truth to me. Clarity. The world is doable when she is near me.” Composure was threatening to leave my body. “Kai.” My voice was a hoarse vocal stumble. Blackwell was enraptured, camera phones up, interest piqued. I was frozen to the spot. “I also know how my favorite movies make me feel. They pull me in and pull me out, I am totally in their world, but they also make me look in. I watch them and feel home, I watch them and feel like I can never know enough, I watch them over and over, always ready to discover the universe they create. That’s how she makes me feel. There’s a whole universe in her and I would be so lucky to live in it, explore it. Over and over.” The film stopped. Aminah cleared her throat into the mic. Her eyes were glistening, and she surreptitiously pinched my waist. “Okay. Well that’s it from our sponsor. Now we have our first call.” She smiled at me and passed me the mic, as if I were capable of working right then, as if my brain was capable of coherency. She nodded at me with such command that I found myself say, in a choked-up voice, “Hi. Welcome to ‘Brown Sugar Sessions.’ What’s your song request?” Malakai walked through the doors, phone to his ear, hand in his pocket, looking directly at me, into me, revitalizing the butterflies, gaze moving like a defibrillator. The crowd turned around to see what I was looking at and immediately dissolved into low woops and cheers, braps and bloops and gun fingers. “So I was thinking, ‘When We Get By,’ D’Angelo. You know it, right?” I was going to faint. “Vaguely.”  “See that song,” the voice said, “sounds like sunshine to me. Sounds like how I think love feels.”  I shook my head and bit into my smile. “Corny.”  “Rude.”  I snorted.  “But then I wondered—and I guess this is my query,” Malakai continued, “if, even that song isn’t enough. Maybe this demands the greatest love song of all time. And I wondered whether if I arranged for the Whitewell Wailers to perform an a capella version of ‘Thong Song’ for her, the girl I can’t get out of my head would forgive me for being a dick.”  I laughed at the in-joke. “Well, objectively, I think she’s sorry for being a dick too. And that you’re already forgiven. I think a performance from the iconic Whitewell Wailers would help, but just in case you can’t secure the third-place finalists in the regionals for the National University Nonconforming Singing Group Competition, we can just play it.”  Malakai nodded. “Sure, sure. Except—”  My jaw dropped, as a strong, baritone hum of bumbumbumbummm immediately burred through the doors of the ballroom, quickly followed by twelve of Whitewell’s second-finest choral group, walking toward the stage, dressed in white tees and black trousers and solemnly informing me, in pristine harmony, that my dress was so scandalous, that there was a look in my eye so devilish.  Malakai’s smile was wide and he shrugged, eyes bright with mischief as the hall exploded into whistles and cheers and my eyes watered and I was laughing and I couldn’t believe how much I loved this ridiculous man.  I turned around and Aminah was grinning wildly as she shooed me off the stage. I hopped off and was followed by trails of “Get it, sis!” as I twined myself through the tables to where Malakai was by the doors.  The Whitewell Wailers found an engaged and appreciative audience in Blackwell, and everyone was up on their feet, clicking in time, and it smoothed over the atmosphere, subduing all residual animus, warming the air. With everyone suitably distracted, Malakai and I were essentially alone. We both paused, the silence comfortable, hot, tingling with energy, faces firm in their self-aware coyness.  “Hey.”  Malakai brought his phone from his ear and slipped it in his pocket, releasing a slow, delicious half smile, and drank me in indulgently. “Hi.”  “Thank you for the serenading.”  “They’re complete divas. Wanted a green room. Hot water and lemon. Massages.”  “I blame Pitch Perfect. By the way, did we really both do public declarations of affection just now?”  “Embarrassing, innit. I can’t believe we’ve become those people.”  Malakai grinned and stepped closer to me, and further into our comfort. “Can we talk about how you buried that prick? You’re incredible. I am so proud of you. You’re kind of my hero, Kiki Banjo.”  I smiled because I couldn’t help it, smiled because I didn’t want to help it even if I could.  “I thought you’d left.”  Malakai shook his head, “Nah. I got a text that Zack had tried to enter the building. I had to go deal with it. Had an AirPod in and was plugged into the live show the whole time, so I heard everything you said.”  I felt my lips part in shock. The boys leaving with Malakai suddenly made sense. I noticed slight creases in Malakai’s otherwise crisp kaftan. “What did you do?”  Malakai shrugged. “Stopped him from getting in, innit. I promised you that I wouldn’t do anything that would get me in trouble with uni, but technically we’re out of the university’s jurisdiction.” His eyes glinted and my knees got weak and I made the executive decision to not ask any more questions because truth be told, I didn’t give a fuck about anything but us right then. Zack could choke.  “Scotch . . . please believe that when I say ‘I got you,’ from now on, I mean it. I’m not gonna slip on that again.” His gaze blazed into me with a ferocity that branded his words as truth in my heart. I trusted him.  I nodded. “I know.” I reached up to trace the intricate embroidery on the lapel of his kaftan, before flattening my hand against his heart. “And I got you.”  Malakai smiled and placed his hand over mine, before picking it up and tenderly tugging me closer toward him. “You know, Meji kicked me out of Sweetest Ting the other night because he said I was bringing down the vibe. He said he likes me better when I’m with you. I said, well shit, I like me better when I’m with you.”  His eyes, as ever black diamonds, coruscated and lit me up from under my skin. His arms slid around my waist, pulled me till my body was flush against his and I melted, butter cupped in a palm, silk between his fingers. I curled my arms around his neck.  “And the other day,” Malakai spoke, blithely, “I burned plantain for the first time in my life.”  I gasped.  Malakai nodded gravely. “I know. It was difficult for me. But do you know why I burned it?”  “Tell me.”  I was thinking of you. I got lost in thinking about you and I forgot that I was frying plantain. That’s when I realized that I must be in love with you. Like . . . insanely in love with you. No one else could distract me from plantain.”  A truth I knew viscerally, but its expression made me feel like I could pluck stars from the sky and wear them on my ears. Like my blood was a liquid giggle. His broad hands wrapped around my waist, heat and pressure agitating the butterflies into chaos. His gaze dropped on to my lips, found something there that made its journey back to my eyes more arduous, lids heavy. In the heat of us, I was sweet and golden and hot and soft like perfectly browned plantain. I was so fully me, so safe in me. I lifted my hand to his face and bumped my lips with his.  “I can’t believe I’m in love with a guy who burns plantain. Worse still, the fact that my boyfriend burned plantain hasn’t made me love him less.”  Malakai’s face was the first stretch of sunlight in spring. His gaze blazed and beamed like something the ancients would build temples for. He curved a hand around the back of my neck in precious possession. “Scotch. Before I lose my mind—”  Malakai’s smile spread across his face and all over me, and when he scooped me so my chest was against his, his arms holding me tight to him, everything fled from existence but us. I might have heard some whoops and hollers, but I wouldn’t have been able to tell for sure. I was elsewhere. I was happy, I was here. His heat melded into my heat and created an alchemy that metamorphosed the butterflies into a bird of paradise, and I was taking flight with it. This kiss, this this, this us, tasted like indulgence and sustenance. Our tongues moved like we were each other’s rice and wine, twirled with the ease of drunken, fed hips. In the kiss, I tasted him and I tasted me and I tasted what we were and what we could be. It tasted like honey and spice, twined. The music faded and Simi’s voice echoed across the hall, the lights dimming dramatically and focusing on the large stage where the DJ booth was situated. “Mandem, gyaldem, peopledem, pay attention, for the portion of the night you have all been waiting for has arrived.”  Her regal demeanor soured a little as her eyes narrowed at something at the back of the hall. “Um . . . who is in the photo booth? Fuck’s sake, what is wrong with you people? I’m all for sexual liberation but we are literally in a hotel right now. You have options. Look, who is on health and safety duty? We have to disinfect that now. Ugh. Chanel, can you sort that please? Don’t do that face. Whose earrings are you borrowing tonight? Thanks, babe. Okay.”  Simi swung some hair out of her face and recomposed herself, a shimmering, glossy smile painted across her face again like she’d never been interrupted. She delicately cleared her throat. “Okay. So. It is time to announce this year’s AfroWinter Ball royalty. The winners get crowns specially ordered from China, a bottle of Prosecco to share, and two coffee vouchers for Beanz worth fifty pounds, and were voted by you, the polis of Blackwell, tonight. Like I said earlier as the polls opened, not only does the AfroWinter Ball royalty have to serve looks, they also have to represent who we are as a community. I hope you chose wisely. And the winners are . . .”  Simi fluttered a serene look across the hall before opening the envelope in her hand.  “Aminah Bakare and Kofi Adjei!”  “Hello? . . . Where are they? . . . Oh my God! Are they the people making out in the photo booth?” When We Get By (Epilogue)


The Blackwell Beat with Lala Jacobs  What’s good Blackwellians, and welcome to The Blackwell Beat with Lala Jacobs.  Our sources have just informed us that Zack Kingsford, the recently disgraced former president of Blackwell, is being investigated by the university for corruption and harassment after Kiki Banjo’s exposure of him at the AfroWinter Ball. Her accusations amplified the protests lobbied against him in the past month, making it impossible for the university to ignore what they have been ignoring for months.  Simi Coker provided a damning dossier to the university bosses. The news has gained traction across campuses nationwide and it is possible that the university’s fear of embarrassment has forced them to act. The Whitewell Knights have formally disbanded and have been condemned by the university. Zack Kingsford has been expelled from campus.




The Teahouse  Well, Blackwellians, looks like the presidency might just get a whole lot sweeter.  In a shocking turn of events, following the ‘Live Brown Sugar Session’ (that was far, far too corny for my tastes), Blackwellians have collectively called for Kiki Banjo to put herself forward for interim president and Adwoa Baker has withdrawn herself from the race, putting herself forward for the vice presidency instead.  If Banjo does win, I hope she and her boyfriend manage to keep their making out to themselves because frankly I’m sick of seeing that much of their tongues in communal spaces and it’s unbecoming for a leader to engage in that much PDA. Seriously, it’s gross. We get it. You’re in love. You’re not the only ones.  I am sure Adwoa Baker will make a fine vice president if their cabinet wins. Some may say the vice president’s role is more important than the president’s, a more strategic position. The team, including Aminah, Shanti, and Chioma, call themselves the Dahomey Amazons, after the all-bad-bitch military regiment in the ancient kingdom. They are up against . . . an all-male party called the Kingsford Kollective. (Really? Okay. Sure.) And the Pow Party. (I am seriously so confused—is this some kind of dance competition from an early noughties movie?!)  Best wishes to all involved.


Brooks Media & Arts Institute New York University Dear Miss Kiki Banjo,

Congratulations! We are pleased to inform you that you have been granted an unconditional offer and full grant on our cross-media summer fellowship program. We look forward to seeing you in July.

Faithfully, Loretta Davis Dean  Acknowledgments


In Yoruba culture, twins are called Taiwo and Kehinde. Taiwo is physically firstborn, but is thought to be the spiritual younger child who was sent out by the eldest to “taste the world,” or “try the world,” first. Kehinde, the eldest, is born second, after their spiritual younger sibling has gone out and confirmed that the world is somewhere that they should venture out to—in other words, after Taiwo has informed Kehinde that the world is worth living in. There is a hope embedded in this lore, this notion that despite the darkness of the world, some hope was detected, some light, some joy, some goodness. That living in the world is worth pursuing. Love in Color is the Taiwo to Honey and Spice’s Kehinde. Honey and Spice is my spiritual firstborn, conceived years ago, living with me through many transitions in my life, growing and deepening as I matured. While I planned for Honey and Spice to be my first book, Love in Color came along and altered those plans—and believe me it took some convincing! Honey and Spice is my firstborn! However, I am so glad that Love in Color was birthed first, because it encapsulated my mission statement, confirming why I do what I do, why I am who I am. It was an introduction, a taster of the many flavors of romance and love that I explore and revere, and it affirmed that not only is there a space for the stories I want to tell, but a community for them. When I came back to shaping and building Honey and Spice, I came bolstered by the many things Love in Color taught me about my craft and my subject matter, by the people who held the stories close to their hearts and breathed life into them by loving them. So I would like to acknowledge Love in Color and all that came with it for tasting the world first and telling Honey and Spice that there was space, to make itself ready. In all that, my faith propelled me, so I would, as always, like to thank God, who is love; who is light; who gave me the compulsion, the need, to create, to craft, and to imagine. My perpetual gratitude and love to Mummy and Daddy, Olukemi and Olufemi Babalola, whose unwavering love and support and belief have given me a confidence that has propelled me through the darkest and hardest of moments. I can do what I can do because of you. If you never doubted me, how dare I doubt myself? Thank you, Daddy, for your WhatsApp blasts of every single bit of news that has my name in it, and for ensuring that everyone who has met you knows that your “dear daughter” is an author. Thank you so much for answering every random message asking for elucidation on Yoruba grammar and diacritics immediately, and with such intellectual vigor and patience! My professor! Mummy, thank you for your no-nonsense tenderness, for giving me words that help to piece myself back together when I feel scattered, for reminding me who I am. Just knowing I have your blood in me, that you are part of me, makes me believe in my capabilities. My therapist! Thank you, parents, for always trying to understand even when you don’t and for your eager curiosity about my world even when it seems far from your own—thank you for sharing it with me. The joy is in making you proud. Katie Packer! My dear KP. Book doula! Thank you so much for believing in this world as much as I do; for understanding this world as much as I do; for asking the questions that helped me enrich it, develop it, and challenge it, so it could be the best version of the story I could produce. Thank you for settling my nerves and being so capable even when I am having a meltdown! Thanks for understanding the need for Beyoncé references, thanks for understanding when I need time, and thanks for your effervescence and love. I am also glad that we always know when we’re in editor mode and diva/writer mode so the lines don’t get blurred! But I am also glad when you know that I need a friend. You have a sharp eye, and you are such a force, and I can’t wait till you run tings! KP, Bad B. Elle Keck! Thank you for being in my corner and throwing your confidence behind both Honey and Spice and Love in Color—it truly means the world that you wanted to broaden out their community, and that you understood all the cultural references that were so precious to me and that helped form the flavor of the book. I always felt like I was in safe hands. I wish you all the best, always. Julia Elliott, thank you for taking over from Elle so seamlessly, with the same passion and enthusiasm! Grateful for the immediate trust you helped foster, and I don’t take it for granted. Thank you to everyone in the Headline and William Morrow teams for all the energy, belief, and enthusiasm thrown behind the book. Juliet Pickering, my Angel Agent! I am so grateful that I embarked on this roller coaster with you next to me. Honey and Spice has been part of my dream for so, so long, before Love in Color, and you always believed in it, always saw what it could be, even in its infancy (the blobby, distorted, embryonic stages that make me cringe upon revisiting). I can’t thank you enough for taking a chance on me. Thank you for being my advocate and friend (and sometimes manager), thank you for patience (this is a running theme . . . I have a lot of meltdowns), and thank you for your counsel—and your gentle pushing. Your wisdom and generosity are things I cherish, and I am blessed to have you on my team. Jessica Stewart, my endlessly patient TV agent: thank you for understanding how much this book means to me, and for allowing me the space to work through it with no pressure—despite having other engagements! It means the world that you support me holistically, and it really helps reduce the aforementioned meltdowns. My beautiful friends, my chosen family. I love you all. Amna Khan, for knowing my essence, and for never questioning my dreams, and for always seeing them with 20/20 vision. From adolescence to now, you have been by my side, with spiritual understanding and a deep knowing of myself that kept me grounded. Charlet Wilson, your heart is so golden and such an inspiration, and your kindness and support are such a galvanizing force— from a mug that says “Bolu Babalola puts the lit in literature” when my first book wasn’t even out, to framing a book cover for a silly little story I wrote when we were twenty-two. Dreaming big is easy when you have friends who see your dreams as reality. Asha Mohamed—thank you for reading the cringe stories I wrote during “private study” in sixth form and thank you for liking them and actually wanting to read them (even if you didn’t actually want to . . . thank you for lying about wanting to read them). You helped confirm that this is all I wanted to do—to write worlds people can believe in, to write new worlds that make people think about our world, people, our feelings. Daniellé Scott-Haughton! Thank you for being my big sister and my pastor—your fortification is not only sororal but spiritual, and I thank you for knowing when I need to be held and for giving me clarity when all I can see is my creative anxiety. Thank you for always being a single frantic call away. (I have a lot of meltdowns. OK? I’m an artist.) Candice Carty- Williams, my darling CCW. Your guidance is invaluable—thank you for knowing that sometimes all I need is a “I know it’s hard. And guess what? You will do it, because you can.” Folarin—cuz, bro, thank you again, for proofreading “Netflix & Chill,” that short story that got shortlisted for a competition, that got me signed to my agents. Thank you for never doubting. Sase!! My wifey. Thank you for being an endless source of laughter and light since we were seven to now. Grateful to have you by my side, and to be your sugar daddy.  Group chat edition: a source of laughter, encouragement, and reprieve. All pockets of supremely talented, wickedly funny, and ridiculously kind women (they are also hot).  PPE: I cannot say what these letters stand for, and if you ask I will say they stand for Platinum Praying Energy. One thing is for certain, though: you are platinum babes.  Twisty Bobcat Pretzels: Grateful that all of you are in a different time zone than me, because it means that even my all-nighters are punctuated with joy and a meme, a well-needed break.  i hate it here: Thank you for being a place where I can purge out all the things I hate so that I can return to the world as at least an ostensibly well- functioning person.  I don’t know how to name this one, because it’s the brain and lightning emoji? But those explain a lot, because you are both a source of light and intelligence.  My bestie-cousins! Shout-out to BIOgraphy—Ore and Ibzy—for allowing me the space to be my goofiest self, for laughing with me till we’re crying.  My blood sisters Bomi and Demi—thank you for your support and love and the fact that we don’t need to say much to know what it is. Gang gang.  Beyoncé—obviously. An artist dedicated to her craft and meticulous with her vision—a constant inspiration.  From London to Lagos to L.A., I have been graced with family, and what a blessing it is to be unable to fit everyone in this section. I trust you know who you are. I truly have been gifted with so much love and support in my life, and I want you to know that even if you haven’t been mentioned by name, you are so valued and appreciated.  Last but not least, I would like to thank my readership and my work’s community that have messaged me about my work and have helped carve a space for my voice and the stories and worlds I have dreamed of crafting and building. You breathe more life into the work than I could ever imagine. Thank you for seeing me. God bless you.

 Love always,  Bx  About the Author


BOLU BABALOLA is the author of the internationally bestselling short- story collection Love in Color. She is a London-based writer and lover of love. In 2016, she was shortlisted in 4th Estate’s B4ME competition for her short story “Netflix & Chill,” a hilarious tale of teen romance. While writing scripts for TV and film, she also works as a culture writer and calls herself a “romcomoisseur.”

Discover great authors, exclusive offers, and more at hc.com. Also by Bolu Babalola


Love in Color  Copyright

This book is a work of fiction. References to real people, events, establishments, organizations, or locales are intended only to provide a sense of authenticity, and are used fictitiously. All other characters, and all incidents and dialogue, are drawn from the author’s imagination and are not to be construed as real.

HONEY AND SPICE. Copyright © 2022 by Bolu Babalola. All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By payment of the required fees, you have been granted the nonexclusive, nontransferable right to access and read the text of this e-book on-screen. No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse-engineered, or stored in or introduced into any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereafter invented, without the express written permission of HarperCollins e-books.

Originally published as Honey and Spice in Great Britain in 2022 by Headline Publishing Group.

FIRST US EDITION

Cover illustration by Jovilee Burton

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data has been applied for.

Digital Edition JULY 2022 ISBN: 978-0-06-314150-6 Print ISBN: 978-0-06-314148-3 About the Publisher


 Australia HarperCollins Publishers Australia Pty. Ltd. Level 13, 201 Elizabeth Street Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia  www.harpercollins.com.au

Canada  HarperCollins Publishers Ltd  Bay Adelaide Centre, East Tower 22 Adelaide Street West, 41st Floor  Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4E3 www.harpercollins.ca

India  HarperCollins India  A 75, Sector 57 Noida Uttar Pradesh 201 301  www.harpercollins.co.in

New Zealand HarperCollins Publishers New Zealand Unit D1, 63 Apollo Drive  Rosedale 0632 Auckland, New Zealand www.harpercollins.co.nz

United Kingdom  HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.  1 London Bridge Street  London SE1 9GF, UK www.harpercollins.co.uk

 United States HarperCollins Publishers Inc. 195 Broadway  New York, NY 10007 www.harpercollins.com cover image  First published in July 2021.




New Enterprise House

St Helens Street

Derby

DE1 3GY

UK




 email: gareth.icke@davidicke.com


 Copyright © 2021 David Icke


No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission from the  Publisher, except for the quotation of brief passages in criticism


Cover Design: Gareth Icke Book Design: Neil Hague


British Library Cataloguing-in

Publication Data

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library


 eISBN 978-18384153-1-0  Dedication:



To Freeeeeedom! Renegade:

Adjective ‘Having rejected tradition: Unconventional.’ Merriam-Webster Dictionary Acquiescence to tyranny is the death of the spirit

 You may be 38 years old, as I happen to be. And one day, some great opportunity stands before you and calls you to  stand up for some great principle, some great issue, some great cause. And you refuse to do it because you are afraid … You refuse to do it because you want to live longer …  You’re afraid that you will lose your job, or you are afraid that you will be criticised or that you will lose your popularity, or you’re afraid that somebody will stab you, or shoot at you or bomb your house; so you refuse to take the  stand.

Well, you may go on and live until you are 90, but you’re just  as dead at 38 as you would be at 90. And the cessation of breathing in your life is but the belated announcement of an  earlier death of the spirit.

Martin Luther King How the few control the many and always have – the many do whatever they’re told

 ‘Forward, the Light Brigade!’ Was there a man dismayed?  Not though the soldier knew  Someone had blundered.  Theirs not to make reply,  Theirs not to reason why,  Theirs but to do and die. Into the valley of Death  Rode the six hundred.

 Cannon to right of them, Cannon to le of them,  Cannon in front of them  Volleyed and thundered; Stormed at with shot and shell, Boldly they rode and well, Into the jaws of Death, Into the mouth of hell  Rode the six hundred

Alfred Lord Tennyson (1809-1892)  The mist is li ing slowly  I can see the way ahead And I’ve le behind the empty streets That once inspired my life  And the strength of the emotion  Is like thunder in the air ’Cos the promise that we made each other Haunts me to the end

The secret of your beauty  And the mystery of your soul I’ve been searching for in everyone I meet  And the times I’ve been mistaken  It’s impossible to say And the grass is growing  Underneath our feet

The words that I remember From my childhood still are true That there’s none so blind As those who will not see  And to those who lack the courage And say it’s dangerous to try Well they just don’t know  That love eternal will not be denied

 I know you’re out there somewhere Somewhere, somewhere  I know you’re out there somewhere  Somewhere you can hear my voice  I know I’ll ﬁnd you somehow  Somehow, somehow  I know I’ll ﬁnd you somehow And somehow I’ll return again to you

 The Moody Blues Are you a gutless wonder - or a Renegade Mind?

 Monuments put from pen to paper, Turns me into a gutless wonder, And if you tolerate this, Then your children will be next.  Gravity keeps my head down, Or is it maybe shame ...

 Manic Street Preachers



Rise like lions a er slumber In unvanquishable number.  Shake your chains to earth like dew Which in sleep have fallen on you. Ye are many – they are few.

 Percy Shelley Contents


CHAPTER 1‘I’m thinking’ – Oh, but are you? CHAPTER 2Renegade perception CHAPTER 3The Pushbacker sting CHAPTER 4‘Covid’: The calculated catastrophe CHAPTER 5There is no ‘virus’ CHAPTER 6Sequence of deceit CHAPTER 7War on your mind CHAPTER 8‘Reframing’ insanity CHAPTER 9We must have it? So what is it? CHAPTER 10 Human 2.0 CHAPTER 11 Who controls the Cult? CHAPTER 12 Escaping Wetiko

Postscript APPENDIX Cowan-Kaufman-Morell Statement on Virus Isolation BIBLIOGRAPHY INDEX CHAPTER ONE

 I’m thinking’ – Oh, butare you?

 Think for yourself and let others enjoy the privilege of doing so too  Voltaire



French-born philosopher, mathematician and scientist René  Descartes became famous for his statement in Latin in the 17th century which translates into English as: ‘I think, therefore I am.’  On the face of it that is true. Thought reﬂects perception and perception leads to both behaviour and self-identity. In that sense ‘we’ are what we think. But who or what is doing the thinking and is thinking the only route to perception? Clearly, as we shall see, ‘we’ are not always the source of ‘our’ perception, indeed with regard to humanity as a whole this is rarely the case; and thinking is far from the only means of perception. Thought is the village idiot compared with other expressions of consciousness that we all have the potential to access and tap into. This has to be true when we are those other expressions of consciousness which are inﬁnite in nature. We have forgo en this, or, more to the point, been manipulated to forget.  These are not just the esoteric musings of the navel. The whole foundation of human control and oppression is control of perception. Once perception is hĳacked then so is behaviour which is dictated by perception. Collective perception becomes collective behaviour and collective behaviour is what we call human society. Perception is all and those behind human control know that which is why perception is the target 24/7 of the psychopathic manipulators that I call the Global Cult. They know that if they dictate perception they will dictate behaviour and collectively dictate the nature of human society. They are further aware that perception is formed from information received and if they control the circulation of information they will to a vast extent direct human behaviour. Censorship of information and opinion has become globally Nazi- like in recent years and never more blatantly than since the illusory ‘virus pandemic’ was triggered out of China in 2019 and across the world in 2020. Why have billions submi ed to house arrest and accepted fascistic societies in a way they would have never believed possible? Those controlling the information spewing from government, mainstream media and Silicon Valley (all controlled by the same Global Cult networks) told them they were in danger from a ‘deadly virus’ and only by submi ing to house arrest and conceding their most basic of freedoms could they and their families be protected. This monumental and provable lie became the perception of the billions and therefore the behaviour of the billions. In those few words you have the whole structure and modus operandi of human control. Fear is a perception – False Emotion Appearing Real – and fear is the currency of control. In short … get them by the

balls (or give them the impression that you have) and their hearts and minds will follow. Nothing grips the dangly bits and freezes the rear-end more comprehensively than fear.

World number 1 There are two ‘worlds’ in what appears to be one ‘world’ and the prime diﬀerence between them is knowledge. First we have the mass of human society in which the population is maintained in coldly- calculated ignorance through control of information and the ‘education’ (indoctrination) system. That’s all you really need to control to enslave billions in a perceptual delusion in which what are perceived to be their thoughts and opinions are ever-repeated mantras that the system has been downloading all their lives through ‘education’, media, science, medicine, politics and academia in which the personnel and advocates are themselves overwhelmingly the perceptual products of the same repetition. Teachers and academics in general are processed by the same programming machine as everyone else, but unlike the great majority they never leave the ‘education’ program. It gripped them as students and continues to grip them as programmers of subsequent generations of students. The programmed become the programmers – the programmed programmers. The same can largely be said for scientists, doctors and politicians and not least because as the American writer Upton Sinclair said: ‘It is diﬃcult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends upon his not understanding it.’ If your career and income depend on thinking the way the system demands then you will – bar a few free- minded exceptions – concede your mind to the Perceptual Mainframe that I call the Postage Stamp Consensus. This is a tiny band of perceived knowledge and possibility ‘taught’ (downloaded) in the schools and universities, pounded out by the mainstream media and on which all government policy is founded. Try thinking, and especially speaking and acting, outside of the ‘box’ of consensus and see what that does for your career in the Mainstream Everything which bullies, harasses, intimidates and ridicules the population into compliance. Here we have the simple structure which enslaves most of humanity in a perceptual prison cell for an entire lifetime and I’ll go deeper into this process shortly. Most of what humanity is taught as fact is nothing more than programmed belief. American science ﬁction author Frank Herbert was right when he said: ‘Belief can be manipulated. Only knowledge is dangerous.’ In the ‘Covid’ age belief is promoted and knowledge is censored. It was always so, but never to the extreme of today.

World number 2 A ‘number 2’ is slang for ‘doing a poo’ and how appropriate that is when this other ‘world’ is doing just that on humanity every minute of every day. World number 2 is a global network of secret societies and semi-secret groups dictating the direction of society via governments, corporations and authorities of every kind. I have spent more than 30 years uncovering and exposing this network that I call the Global Cult and knowing its agenda is what has made my books so accurate in predicting current and past events. Secret societies are secret for a reason. They want to keep their hoarded knowledge to themselves and their chosen initiates and to hide it from the population which they seek through ignorance to control and subdue. The whole foundation of the division between World 1 and World 2 is knowledge. What number 1 knows number 2 must not. Knowledge they have worked so hard to keep secret includes (a) the agenda to enslave humanity in a centrally-controlled global dictatorship, and (b) the nature of reality and life itself. The la er (b) must be suppressed to allow the former (a) to prevail as I shall be explaining. The way the Cult manipulates and interacts with the population can be likened to a spider’s web. The ‘spider’ sits at the centre in the shadows and imposes its will through the web with each strand represented in World number 2 by a secret society, satanic or semi-secret group, and in World number 1 – the world of the seen – by governments, agencies of government, law enforcement, corporations, the banking system, media conglomerates and Silicon Valley (Fig 1 overleaf). The spider and the web connect and coordinate all these organisations to pursue the same global outcome while the population sees them as individual entities working randomly and independently. At the level of the web governments are the banking system are the corporations are the media are Silicon Valley are the World Health Organization working from their inner cores as one unit. Apparently unconnected countries, corporations, institutions, organisations and people are on the same team pursuing the same global outcome. Strands in the web immediately around the spider are the most secretive and exclusive secret societies and their membership is emphatically restricted to the Cult inner-circle emerging through the generations from particular bloodlines for reasons I will come to. At the core of the core you would get them in a single room. That’s how many people are dictating the direction of human society and its transformation through the ‘Covid’ hoax and other means. As the web expands out from the spider we meet the secret societies that many people will be aware of – the Freemasons, Knights Templar, Knights of Malta, Opus Dei, the inner sanctum of the Jesuit Order, and such like. Note how many are connected to the Church of Rome and there is a reason for that. The Roman Church was established as a revamp, a rebranding, of the relocated ‘Church’ of Babylon and the Cult imposing global tyranny today can be tracked back to Babylon and Sumer in what is now Iraq.




Figure 1: The global web through which the few control the many. (Image Neil Hague.)

 Inner levels of the web operate in the unseen away from the public eye and then we have what I call the cusp organisations located at the point where the hidden meets the seen. They include a series of satellite organisations answering to a secret society founded in London in the late 19th century called the Round Table and among them are the Royal Institute of International Aﬀairs (UK, founded in 1920); Council on Foreign Relations (US, 1921); Bilderberg Group (worldwide, 1954); Trilateral Commission (US/worldwide, 1972); and the Club of Rome (worldwide, 1968) which was created to exploit environmental concerns to justify the centralisation of global power to ‘save the planet’. The Club of Rome instigated with others the human-caused climate change hoax which has led to all the ‘green new deals’ demanding that very centralisation of control. Cusp organisations, which include endless ‘think tanks’ all over the world, are designed to coordinate a single global policy between political and business leaders, intelligence personnel, media organisations and anyone who can inﬂuence the direction of policy in their own sphere of operation. Major players and regular a enders will know what is happening – or some of it – while others come and go and are kept overwhelmingly in the dark about the big picture. I refer to these cusp groupings as semi-secret in that they can be publicly identiﬁed, but what goes on at the inner-core is kept very much ‘in house’ even from most of their members and participants through a ﬁercely-imposed system of compartmentalisation. Only let them know what they need to know to serve your interests and no more. The structure of secret societies serves as a perfect example of this principle. Most Freemasons never get higher than the bo om three levels of ‘degree’ (degree of knowledge) when there are 33 oﬃcial degrees of the Sco ish Rite. Initiates only qualify for the next higher ‘compartment’ or degree if those at that level choose to allow them. Knowledge can be carefully assigned only to those considered ‘safe’. I went to my local Freemason’s lodge a few years ago when they were having an ‘open day’ to show how cuddly they were and when I cha ed to some of them I was astonished at how li le the rank and ﬁle knew even about the most ubiquitous symbols they use. The mushroom technique – keep them in the dark and feed them bullshit – applies to most people in the web as well as the population as a whole. Sub-divisions of the web mirror in theme and structure transnational corporations which have a headquarters somewhere in the world dictating to all their subsidiaries in diﬀerent countries. Subsidiaries operate in their methodology and branding to the same centrally-dictated plan and policy in pursuit of particular ends. The Cult web functions in the same way. Each country has its own web as a subsidiary of the global one. They consist of networks of secret societies, semi-secret groups and bloodline families and their job is to impose the will of the spider and the global web in their particular country. Subsidiary networks control and manipulate the national political system, ﬁnance, corporations, media, medicine, etc. to ensure that they follow the globally-dictated Cult agenda. These networks were the means through which the ‘Covid’ hoax could be played out with almost every country responding in the same way.

The ‘Yessir’ pyramid Compartmentalisation is the key to understanding how a tiny few can dictate the lives of billions when combined with a top-down sequence of imposition and acquiescence. The inner core of the Cult sits at the peak of the pyramidal hierarchy of human society (Fig 2 overleaf). It imposes its will – its agenda for the world – on the level immediately below which acquiesces to that imposition. This level then imposes the Cult will on the level below them which acquiesces and imposes on the next level. Very quickly we meet levels in the hierarchy that have no idea there even is a Cult, but the sequence of imposition and acquiescence continues down the pyramid in just the same way. ‘I don’t know why we are doing this but the order came from “on-high” and so we be er just do it.’ Alfred Lord Tennyson said of the cannon fodder levels in his poem The Charge of the Light Brigade: ‘Theirs not to reason why; theirs but to do and die.’ The next line says that ‘into the valley of death rode the six hundred’ and they died because they obeyed without question what their perceived ‘superiors’ told them to do. In the same way the population capitulated to ‘Covid’. The whole hierarchical pyramid functions like this to allow the very few to direct the enormous many. Eventually imposition-acquiescence-imposition-acquiescence comes down to the mass of the population at the foot of the pyramid. If they acquiesce to those levels of the hierarchy imposing on them (governments/law enforcement/doctors/media) a circuit is completed between the population and the handful of super- psychopaths in the Cult inner core at the top of the pyramid. Without a circuit-breaking refusal to obey, the sequence of imposition and acquiescence allows a staggeringly few people to impose their will upon the entirety of humankind. We are looking at the very sequence that has subjugated billions since the start of 2020. Our freedom has not been taken from us. Humanity has given it away. Fascists do not impose fascism because there are not enough of them. Fascism is imposed by the population acquiescing to fascism. Put another way allowing their perceptions to be programmed to the extent that leads to the population giving their freedom away by giving their perceptions – their mind – away. If this circuit is not broken by humanity ceasing to cooperate with their own enslavement then nothing can change. For that to happen people have to critically think and see through the lies and window dressing and then summon the backbone to act upon what they see. The Cult spends its days working to stop either happening and its methodology is systematic and highly detailed, but it can be overcome and that is what this book is all about.




Figure 2: The simple sequence of imposition and compliance that allows a handful of people at the peak of the pyramid to dictate the lives of billions.


The Life Program Okay, back to world number 1 or the world of the ‘masses’. Observe the process of what we call ‘life’ and it is a perceptual download from cradle to grave. The Cult has created a global structure in which perception can be programmed and the program continually topped-up with what appears to be constant conﬁrmation that the program is indeed true reality. The important word here is ‘appears’. This is the structure, the ﬂy-trap, the Postage Stamp Consensus or Perceptual Mainframe, which represents that incredibly narrow band of perceived possibility delivered by the ‘education’ system, mainstream media, science and medicine. From the earliest age the download begins with parents who have themselves succumbed to the very programming their children are about to go through. Most parents don’t do this out of malevolence and mostly it is quite the opposite. They do what they believe is best for their children and that is what the program has told them is best. Within three or four years comes the major transition from parental programming to full- blown state (Cult) programming in school, college and university where perceptually-programmed teachers and academics pass on their programming to the next generations. Teachers who resist are soon marginalised and their careers ended while children who resist are called a problem child for whom Ritalin may need to be prescribed. A few years a er entering the ‘world’ children are under the control of authority ﬁgures representing the state telling them when they have to be there, when they can leave and when they can speak, eat, even go to the toilet. This is calculated preparation for a lifetime of obeying authority in all its forms. Reﬂex-action fear of authority is instilled by authority from the start. Children soon learn the carrot and stick consequences of obeying or defying authority which is underpinned daily for the rest of their life. Fortunately I daydreamed through this crap and never obeyed authority simply because it told me to. This approach to my alleged ‘be ers’ continues to this day. There can be consequences of pursuing open-minded freedom in a world of closed-minded conformity. I spent a lot of time in school corridors a er being ejected from the classroom for not taking some of it seriously and now I spend a lot of time being ejected from Facebook, YouTube and Twi er. But I can tell you that being true to yourself and not compromising your self-respect is far more exhilarating than bowing to authority for authority’s sake. You don’t have to be a sheep to the shepherd (authority) and the sheep dog (fear of not obeying authority).  The perceptual download continues throughout the formative years in school, college and university while script-reading ‘teachers’, ‘academics’ ‘scientists’, ‘doctors’ and ‘journalists’ insist that ongoing generations must be as programmed as they are. Accept the program or you will not pass your ‘exams’ which conﬁrm your ‘degree’ of programming. It is tragic to think that many parents pressure their oﬀspring to work hard at school to download the program and qualify for the next stage at college and university. The late, great, American comedian George Carlin said: ‘Here’s a bumper sticker I’d like to see: We are proud parents of a child who has resisted his teachers’ a empts to break his spirit and bend him to the will of his corporate masters.’ Well, the best of luck ﬁnding many of those, George. Then comes the moment to leave the formal programming years in academia and enter the ‘adult’ world of work. There you meet others in your chosen or prescribed arena who went through the same Postage Stamp Consensus program before you did. There is therefore overwhelming agreement between almost everyone on the basic foundations of Postage Stamp reality and the rejection, even contempt, of the few who have a mind of their own and are prepared to use it. This has two major eﬀects. Firstly, the consensus conﬁrms to the programmed that their download is really how things are. I mean, everyone knows that, right? Secondly, the arrogance and ignorance of Postage Stamp adherents ensure that anyone questioning the program will have unpleasant consequences for seeking their own truth and not picking their perceptions from the shelf marked: ‘Things you must believe without question and if you don’t you’re a dangerous lunatic conspiracy theorist and a harebrained nu er’.  Every government, agency and corporation is founded on the same Postage Stamp prison cell and you can see why so many people believe the same thing while calling it their own ‘opinion’. Fusion of governments and corporations in pursuit of the same agenda was the deﬁnition of fascism described by Italian dictator Benito Mussolini. The pressure to conform to perceptual norms downloaded for a lifetime is incessant and inﬁltrates society right down to family groups that become censors and condemners of their own ‘black sheep’ for not, ironically, being sheep. We have seen an explosion of that in the ‘Covid’ era. Cult-owned global media unleashes its propaganda all day every day in support of the Postage Stamp and targets with abuse and ridicule anyone in the public eye who won’t bend their mind to the will of the tyranny. Any response to this is denied (certainly in my case). They don’t want to give a platform to expose oﬃcial lies. Cult-owned-and-created Internet giants like Facebook, Google, YouTube and Twi er delete you for having an unapproved opinion. Facebook boasts that its AI censors delete 97-percent of ‘hate speech’ before anyone even reports it. Much of that ‘hate speech’ will simply be an opinion that Facebook and its masters don’t want people to see. Such perceptual oppression is widely known as fascism. Even Facebook executive Benny Thomas, a ‘CEO Global Planning Lead’, said in comments secretly recorded by investigative journalism operation Project Veritas that Facebook is ‘too powerful’ and should be broken up:

I mean, no king in history has been the ruler of two billion people, but Mark Zuckerberg is … And he’s 36. That’s too much for a 36-year-old ... You should not have power over two billion people. I just think that’s wrong.


Thomas said Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram, Oculus, and WhatsApp needed to be separate companies. ‘It’s too much power when they’re all one together’. That’s the way the Cult likes it, however. We have an executive of a Cult organisation in Benny Thomas that doesn’t know there is a Cult such is the compartmentalisation. Thomas said that Facebook and Google ‘are no longer companies, they’re countries’. Actually they are more powerful than countries on the basis that if you control information you control perception and control human society.

I love my oppressor Another expression of this psychological trickery is for those who realise they are being pressured into compliance to eventually convince themselves to believe the oﬃcial narratives to protect their self-respect from accepting the truth that they have succumbed to meek and subservient compliance. Such people become some of the most vehement defenders of the system. You can see them everywhere screaming abuse at those who prefer to think for themselves and by doing so reminding the compliers of their own capitulation to conformity. ‘You are talking dangerous nonsense you Covidiot!!’ Are you trying to convince me or yourself? It is a potent form of Stockholm syndrome which is deﬁned as: ‘A psychological condition that occurs when a victim of abuse identiﬁes and a aches, or bonds, positively with their abuser.’ An example is hostages bonding and even ‘falling in love’ with their kidnappers. The syndrome has been observed in domestic violence, abused children, concentration camp inmates, prisoners of war and many and various Satanic cults. These are some traits of Stockholm syndrome listed at goodtherapy.org:

• Positive regard towards perpetrators of abuse or captor [see ‘Covid’]. • Failure to cooperate with police and other government authorities when it comes to holding perpetrators of abuse or kidnapping accountable [or in the case of ‘Covid’ cooperating with the police to enforce and defend their captors’ demands]. • Li le or no eﬀort to escape [see ‘Covid’]. • Belief in the goodness of the perpetrators or kidnappers [see ‘Covid’]. • Appeasement of captors. This is a manipulative strategy for maintaining one’s safety. As victims get rewarded – perhaps with less abuse or even with life itself – their appeasing behaviours are reinforced [see ‘Covid’]. • Learned helplessness. This can be akin to ‘if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em’. As the victims fail to escape the abuse or captivity, they may start giving up and soon realize it’s just easier for everyone if they acquiesce all their power to their captors [see ‘Covid’]. Feelings of pity toward the abusers, believing they are actually • victims themselves. Because of this, victims may go on a crusade or mission to ‘save’ [protect] their abuser [see the venom unleashed on those challenging the oﬃcial ‘Covid’ narrative]. • Unwillingness to learn to detach from their perpetrators and heal. In essence, victims may tend to be less loyal to themselves than to their abuser [ definitely see ‘Covid’].

 Ponder on those traits and compare them with the behaviour of great swathes of the global population who have defended governments and authorities which have spent every minute destroying their lives and livelihoods and those of their children and grandchildren since early 2020 with fascistic lockdowns, house arrest and employment deletion to ‘protect’ them from a ‘deadly virus’ that their abusers’ perceptually created to bring about this very outcome. We are looking at mass Stockholm syndrome. All those that agree to concede their freedom will believe those perceptions are originating in their own independent ‘mind’ when in fact by conceding their reality to Stockholm syndrome they have by deﬁnition conceded any independence of mind. Listen to the ‘opinions’ of the acquiescing masses in this ‘Covid’ era and what gushes forth is the repetition of the oﬃcial version of everything delivered unprocessed, unﬁltered and unquestioned. The whole programming dynamic works this way. I must be free because I’m told that I am and so I think that I am.  You can see what I mean with the chapter theme of ‘I’m thinking – Oh, but are you?’ The great majority are not thinking, let alone for themselves. They are repeating what authority has told them to believe which allows them to be controlled. Weaving through this mentality is the fear that the ‘conspiracy theorists’ are right and this again explains the o en hysterical abuse that ensues when you dare to contest the oﬃcial narrative of anything. Denial is the mechanism of hiding from yourself what you don’t want to be true. Telling people what they want to hear is easy, but it’s an inﬁnitely greater challenge to tell them what they would rather not be happening. One is akin to pushing against an open door while the other is met with vehement resistance no ma er what the scale of evidence. I don’t want it to be true so I’ll convince myself that it’s not. Examples are everywhere from the denial that a partner is cheating despite all the signs to the reﬂex-action rejection of any idea that world events in which country a er country act in exactly the same way are centrally coordinated. To accept the la er is to accept that a force of unspeakable evil is working to destroy your life and the lives of your children with nothing too horriﬁc to achieve that end. Who the heck wants that to be true? But if we don’t face reality the end is duly achieved and the consequences are far worse and ongoing than breaking through the walls of denial today with the courage to make a stand against tyranny.

Connect the dots – but how? A crucial aspect of perceptual programming is to portray a world in which everything is random and almost nothing is connected to anything else. Randomness cannot be coordinated by its very nature and once you perceive events as random the idea they could be connected is waved away as the rantings of the tinfoil-hat brigade. You can’t plan and coordinate random you idiot! No, you can’t, but you can hide the coldly-calculated and long-planned behind the illusion of randomness. A foundation manifestation of the Renegade Mind is to scan reality for pa erns that connect the apparently random and turn pixels and dots into pictures. This is the way I work and have done so for more than 30 years. You look for similarities in people, modus operandi and desired outcomes and slowly, then ever quicker, the picture forms. For instance: There would seem to be no connection between the ‘Covid pandemic’ hoax and the human-caused global-warming hoax and yet they are masks (appropriately) on the same face seeking the same outcome. Those pushing the global warming myth through the Club of Rome and other Cult agencies are driving the lies about ‘Covid’ – Bill Gates is an obvious one, but they are endless. Why would the same people be involved in both when they are clearly not connected? Oh, but they are. Common themes with personnel are matched by common goals. The ‘solutions’ to both ‘problems’ are centralisation of global power to impose the will of the few on the many to ‘save’ humanity from ‘Covid’ and save the planet from an ‘existential threat’ (we need ‘zero Covid’ and ‘zero carbon emissions’). These, in turn, connect with the ‘dot’ of globalisation which was coined to describe the centralisation of global power in every area of life through incessant political and corporate expansion, trading blocks and superstates like the European Union. If you are the few and you want to control the many you have to centralise power and decision-making. The more you centralise power the more power the few at the centre will have over the many; and the more that power is centralised the more power those at the centre have to centralise even quicker. The momentum of centralisation gets faster and faster which is exactly the process we have witnessed. In this way the hoaxed ‘pandemic’ and the fakery of human-caused global warming serve the interests of globalisation and the seizure of global power in the hands of the Cult inner-circle which is behind ‘Covid’, ‘climate change’ and globalisation. At this point random ‘dots’ become a clear and obvious picture or pa ern. Klaus Schwab, the classic Bond villain who founded the Cult’s Gates-funded World Economic Forum, published a book in 2020, The Great Reset, in which he used the ‘problem’ of ‘Covid’ to justify a total transformation of human society to ‘save’ humanity from ‘climate change’. Schwab said: ‘The pandemic represents a rare but narrow window of opportunity to reﬂect, reimagine, and reset our world.’ What he didn’t mention is that the Cult he serves is behind both hoaxes as I show in my book The Answer. He and the Cult don’t have to reimagine the world. They know precisely what they want and that’s why they destroyed human society with ‘Covid’ to ‘build back be er’ in their grand design. Their job is not to imagine, but to get humanity to imagine and agree with their plans while believing it’s all random. It must be pure coincidence that ‘The Great Reset’ has long been the Cult’s code name for the global imposition of fascism and replaced previous code-names of the ‘New World Order’ used by Cult frontmen like Father George Bush and the ‘New Order of the Ages’ which emerged from Freemasonry and much older secret societies. New Order of the Ages appears on the reverse of the Great Seal of the United States as ‘Novus ordo seclorum’ underneath the Cult symbol used since way back of the pyramid and all seeing-eye (Fig 3). The pyramid is the hierarchy of human control headed by the illuminated eye that symbolises the force behind the Cult which I will expose in later chapters. The term ‘Annuit Coeptis’ translates as ‘He favours our undertaking’. We are told the ‘He’ is the Christian god, but ‘He’ is not as I will be explaining.




Figure 3: The all-seeing eye of the Cult ‘god’ on the Freemason-designed Great Seal of the United States and also on the dollar bill.


Having you on Two major Cult techniques of perceptual manipulation that relate to all this are what I have called since the 1990s Problem-Reaction- Solution (PRS) and the Totalitarian Tiptoe (TT). They can be uncovered by the inquiring mind with a simple question: Who beneﬁts? The answer usually identiﬁes the perpetrators of a given action or happening through the concept of ‘he who most beneﬁts from a crime is the one most likely to have commi ed it’. The Latin ‘Cue bono?’ – Who beneﬁts? – is widely a ributed to the Roman orator and statesman Marcus Tullius Cicero. No wonder it goes back so far when the concept has been relevant to human behaviour since history was recorded. Problem-Reaction-Solution is the technique used to manipulate us every day by covertly creating a problem (or the illusion of one) and oﬀering the solution to the problem (or the illusion of one). In the ﬁrst phase you create the problem and blame someone or something else for why it has happened. This may relate to a ﬁnancial collapse, terrorist a ack, war, global warming or pandemic, anything in fact that will allow you to impose the ‘solution’ to change society in the way you desire at that time. The ‘problem’ doesn’t have to be real. PRS is manipulation of perception and all you need is the population to believe the problem is real. Human-caused global warming and the ‘Covid pandemic’ only have to be perceived to be real for the population to accept the ‘solutions’ of authority. I refer to this technique as NO-Problem-Reaction-Solution. Billions did not meekly accept house arrest from early 2020 because there was a real deadly ‘Covid pandemic’ but because they perceived – believed – that to be the case. The antidote to Problem- Reaction-Solution is to ask who beneﬁts from the proposed solution. Invariably it will be anyone who wants to justify more control through deletion of freedom and centralisation of power and decision-making.  The two world wars were Problem-Reaction-Solutions that transformed and realigned global society. Both were manipulated into being by the Cult as I have detailed in books since the mid- 1990s. They dramatically centralised global power, especially World War Two, which led to the United Nations and other global bodies thanks to the overt and covert manipulations of the Rockefeller family and other Cult bloodlines like the Rothschilds. The UN is a stalking horse for full-blown world government that I will come to shortly. The land on which the UN building stands in New York was donated by the Rockefellers and the same Cult family was behind Big Pharma scalpel and drug ‘medicine’ and the creation of the World Health Organization as part of the UN. They have been stalwarts of the eugenics movement and funded Hitler’s race-purity expert’ Ernst Rudin. The human-caused global warming hoax has been orchestrated by the Club of Rome through the UN which is manufacturing both the ‘problem’ through its Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and imposing the ‘solution’ through its Agenda 21 and Agenda 2030 which demand the total centralisation of global power to ‘save the world’ from a climate hoax the United Nations is itself perpetrating. What a small world the Cult can be seen to be particularly among the inner circles. The bedfellow of Problem-Reaction-Solution is the Totalitarian Tiptoe which became the Totalitarian Sprint in 2020. The technique is fashioned to hide the carefully-coordinated behind the cover of apparently random events. You start the sequence at ‘A’ and you know you are heading for ‘Z’. You don’t want people to know that and each step on the journey is presented as a random happening while all the steps strung together lead in the same direction. The speed may have quickened dramatically in recent times, but you can still see the incremental approach of the Tiptoe in the case of ‘Covid’ as each new imposition takes us deeper into fascism. Tell people they have to do this or that to get back to ‘normal’, then this and this and this. With each new demand adding to the ones that went before the population’s freedom is deleted until it disappears. The spider wraps its web around the ﬂies more comprehensively with each new diktat. I’ll highlight this in more detail when I get to the ‘Covid’ hoax and how it has been pulled oﬀ. Another prime example of the Totalitarian Tiptoe is how the Cult-created European Union went from a ‘free- trade zone’ to a centralised bureaucratic dictatorship through the Tiptoe of incremental centralisation of power until nations became mere administrative units for Cult-owned dark suits in Brussels.  The antidote to ignorance is knowledge which the Cult seeks vehemently to deny us, but despite the systematic censorship to that end the Renegade Mind can overcome this by vociferously seeking out the facts no ma er the impediments put in the way. There is also a method of thinking and perceiving – knowing – that doesn’t even need names, dates, place-type facts to identify the pa erns that reveal the story. I’ll get to that in the ﬁnal chapter. All you need to know about the manipulation of human society and to what end is still out there – at the time of writing – in the form of books, videos and websites for those that really want to breach the walls of programmed perception. To access this knowledge requires the abandonment of the mainstream media as a source of information in the awareness that this is owned and controlled by the Cult and therefore promotes mass perceptions that suit the Cult. Mainstream media lies all day, every day. That is its function and very reason for being. Where it does tell the truth, here and there, is only because the truth and the Cult agenda very occasionally coincide. If you look for fact and insight to the BBC, CNN and virtually all the rest of them you are asking to be conned and perceptually programmed.

Know the outcome and you’ll see the journey Events seem random when you have no idea where the world is being taken. Once you do the random becomes the carefully planned. Know the outcome and you’ll see the journey is a phrase I have been using for a long time to give context to daily happenings that appear unconnected. Does a problem, or illusion of a problem, trigger a proposed ‘solution’ that further drives society in the direction of the outcome? Invariably the answer will be yes and the random – abracadabra – becomes the clearly coordinated. So what is this outcome that unlocks the door to a massively expanded understanding of daily events? I will summarise its major aspects – the ﬁne detail is in my other books – and those new to this information will see that the world they thought they were living in is a very diﬀerent place. The foundation of the Cult agenda is the incessant centralisation of power and all such centralisation is ultimately in pursuit of Cult control on a global level. I have described for a long time the planned world structure of top-down dictatorship as the Hunger Games Society. The term obviously comes from the movie series which portrayed a world in which a few living in military-protected hi-tech luxury were the overlords of a population condemned to abject poverty in isolated ‘sectors’ that were not allowed to interact. ‘Covid’ lockdowns and travel bans anyone? The ‘Hunger Games’ pyramid of structural control has the inner circle of the Cult at the top with pre y much the entire population at the bo om under their control through dependency for survival on the Cult. The whole structure is planned to be protected and enforced by a military-police state (Fig 4).  Here you have the reason for the global lockdowns of the fake pandemic to coldly destroy independent incomes and livelihoods and make everyone dependent on the ‘state’ (the Cult that controls the ‘states’). I have warned in my books for many years about the plan to introduce a ‘guaranteed income’ – a barely survivable pi ance – designed to impose dependency when employment was destroyed by AI technology and now even more comprehensively at great speed by the ‘Covid’ scam. Once the pandemic was played and lockdown consequences began to delete independent income the authorities began to talk right on cue about the need for a guaranteed income and a ‘Great Reset’. Guaranteed income will be presented as benevolent governments seeking to help a desperate people – desperate as a direct result of actions of the same governments. The truth is that such payments are a trap. You will only get them if you do exactly what the authorities demand including mass vaccination (genetic manipulation). We have seen this theme already in Australia where those dependent on government beneﬁts have them reduced if parents don’t agree to have their children vaccinated according to an insane health- destroying government-dictated schedule. Calculated economic collapse applies to governments as well as people. The Cult wants rid of countries through the creation of a world state with countries broken up into regions ruled by a world government and super states like the European Union. Countries must be bankrupted, too, to this end and it’s being achieved by the trillions in ‘rescue packages’ and furlough payments, trillions in lost taxation, and money-no-object spending on ‘Covid’ including constant all- medium advertising (programming) which has made the media dependent on government for much of its income. The day of reckoning is coming – as planned – for government spending and given that it has been made possible by printing money and not by production/taxation there is inﬂation on the way that has the potential to wipe out monetary value. In that case there will be no need for the Cult to steal your money. It just won’t be worth anything (see the German Weimar Republic before the Nazis took over). Many have been okay with lockdowns while ge ing a percentage of their income from so-called furlough payments without having to work. Those payments are dependent, however, on people having at least a theoretical job with a business considered non-essential and ordered to close. As these business go under because they are closed by lockdown a er lockdown the furlough stops and it will for everyone eventually. Then what? The ‘then what?’ is precisely the idea.




Figure 4: The Hunger Games Society structure I have long warned was planned and now the ‘Covid’ hoax has made it possible. This is the real reason for lockdowns.


Hired hands Between the Hunger Games Cult elite and the dependent population is planned to be a vicious military-police state (a fusion of the two into one force). This has been in the making for a long time with police looking ever more like the military and carrying weapons to match. The pandemic scam has seen this process accelerate so fast as lockdown house arrest is brutally enforced by carefully recruited fascist minds and gormless system-servers. The police and military are planned to merge into a centrally-directed world army in a global structure headed by a world government which wouldn’t be elected even by the election ﬁxes now in place. The world army is not planned even to be human and instead wars would be fought, primarily against the population, using robot technology controlled by artiﬁcial intelligence. I have been warning about this for decades and now militaries around the world are being transformed by this very AI technology. The global regime that I describe is a particular form of fascism known as a technocracy in which decisions are not made by clueless and co-opted politicians but by unelected technocrats – scientists, engineers, technologists and bureaucrats. Cult-owned-and-controlled Silicon Valley giants are examples of technocracy and they already have far more power to direct world events than governments. They are with their censorship selecting governments. I know that some are calling the ‘Great Reset’ a Marxist communist takeover, but fascism and Marxism are diﬀerent labels for the same tyranny. Tell those who lived in fascist Germany and Stalinist Russia that there was a diﬀerence in the way their freedom was deleted and their lives controlled. I could call it a fascist technocracy or a Marxist technocracy and they would be equally accurate. The Hunger Games society with its world government structure would oversee a world army, world central bank and single world cashless currency imposing its will on a microchipped population (Fig 5). Scan its diﬀerent elements and see how the illusory pandemic is forcing society in this very direction at great speed. Leaders of 23 countries and the World Health Organization (WHO) backed the idea in March, 2021, of a global treaty for ‘international cooperation’ in ‘health emergencies’ and nations should ‘come together as a global community for peaceful cooperation that extends beyond this crisis’. Cut the Orwellian bullshit and this means another step towards global government. The plan includes a cashless digital money system that I ﬁrst warned about in 1993. Right at the start of ‘Covid’ the deeply corrupt Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the crooked and merely gofer ‘head’ of the World Health Organization, said it was possible to catch the ‘virus’ by touching cash and it was be er to use cashless means. The claim was ridiculous nonsense and like the whole ‘Covid’ mind-trick it was nothing to do with ‘health’ and everything to do with pushing every aspect of the Cult agenda. As a result of the Tedros lie the use of cash has plummeted. The Cult script involves a single world digital currency that would eventually be technologically embedded in the body. China is a massive global centre for the Cult and if you watch what is happening there you will know what is planned for everywhere. The Chinese government is developing a digital currency which would allow ﬁnes to be deducted immediately via AI for anyone caught on camera breaking its fantastic list of laws and the money is going to be programmable with an expiry date to ensure that no one can accrue wealth except the Cult and its operatives.




Figure 5: The structure of global control the Cult has been working towards for so long and this has been enormously advanced by the ‘Covid’ illusion.


Serfdom is so smart The Cult plan is far wider, extreme, and more comprehensive than even most conspiracy researchers appreciate and I will come to the true depths of deceit and control in the chapters ‘Who controls the Cult?’ and ‘Escaping Wetiko’. Even the world that we know is crazy enough. We are being deluged with ever more sophisticated and controlling technology under the heading of ‘smart’. We have smart televisions, smart meters, smart cards, smart cars, smart driving, smart roads, smart pills, smart patches, smart watches, smart skin, smart borders, smart pavements, smart streets, smart cities, smart communities, smart environments, smart growth, smart planet ... smart everything around us. Smart technologies and methods of operation are designed to interlock to create a global Smart Grid connecting the entirety of human society including human minds to create a centrally-dictated ‘hive’ mind. ‘Smart cities’ is code for densely-occupied megacities of total surveillance and control through AI. Ever more destructive frequency communication systems like 5G have been rolled out without any oﬃcial testing for health and psychological eﬀects (colossal). 5G/6G/7G systems are needed to run the Smart Grid and each one becomes more destructive of body and mind. Deleting independent income is crucial to forcing people into these AI-policed prisons by ending private property ownership (except for the Cult elite). The Cult’s Great Reset now openly foresees a global society in which no one will own any possessions and everything will be rented while the Cult would own literally everything under the guise of government and corporations. The aim has been to use the lockdowns to destroy sources of income on a mass scale and when the people are destitute and in unrepayable amounts of debt (problem) Cult assets come forward with the pledge to write-oﬀ debt in return for handing over all property and possessions (solution). Everything – literally everything including people – would be connected to the Internet via AI. I was warning years ago about the coming Internet of Things (IoT) in which all devices and technology from your car to your fridge would be plugged into the Internet and controlled by AI. Now we are already there with much more to come. The next stage is the Internet of Everything (IoE) which is planned to include the connection of AI to the human brain and body to replace the human mind with a centrally-controlled AI mind. Instead of perceptions being manipulated through control of information and censorship those perceptions would come direct from the Cult through AI. What do you think? You think whatever AI decides that you think. In human terms there would be no individual ‘think’ any longer. Too incredible? The ravings of a lunatic? Not at all. Cult-owned crazies in Silicon Valley have been telling us the plan for years without explaining the real motivation and calculated implications. These include Google executive and ‘futurist’ Ray Kurzweil who highlights the year 2030 for when this would be underway. He said:

Our thinking ... will be a hybrid of biological and non-biological thinking ... humans will be able to extend their limitations and ‘think in the cloud’ ... We’re going to put gateways to the cloud in our brains ... We’re going to gradually merge and enhance ourselves ... In my view, that’s the nature of being human – we transcend our limitations.

As the technology becomes vastly superior to what we are then the small proportion that is still human gets smaller and smaller and smaller until it’s just utterly negligible.


 The sales-pitch of Kurzweil and Cult-owned Silicon Valley is that this would make us ‘super-human’ when the real aim is to make us post-human and no longer ‘human’ in the sense that we have come to know. The entire global population would be connected to AI and become the centrally-controlled ‘hive-mind’ of externally-delivered perceptions. The Smart Grid being installed to impose the Cult’s will on the world is being constructed to allow particular locations – even one location – to control the whole global system. From these prime control centres, which absolutely include China and Israel, anything connected to the Internet would be switched on or oﬀ and manipulated at will. Energy systems could be cut, communication via the Internet taken down, computer-controlled driverless autonomous vehicles driven oﬀ the road, medical devices switched oﬀ, the potential is limitless given how much AI and Internet connections now run human society. We have seen nothing yet if we allow this to continue. Autonomous vehicle makers are working with law enforcement to produce cars designed to automatically pull over if they detect a police or emergency vehicle ﬂashing from up to 100 feet away. At a police stop the car would be unlocked and the window rolled down automatically. Vehicles would only take you where the computer (the state) allowed. The end of petrol vehicles and speed limiters on all new cars in the UK and EU from 2022 are steps leading to electric computerised transport over which ultimately you have no control. The picture is far bigger even than the Cult global network or web and that will become clear when I get to the nature of the ‘spider’. There is a connection between all these happenings and the instigation of DNA-manipulating ‘vaccines’ (which aren’t ‘vaccines’) justiﬁed by the ‘Covid’ hoax. That connection is the unfolding plan to transform the human body from a biological to a synthetic biological state and this is why synthetic biology is such a fast-emerging discipline of mainstream science. ‘Covid vaccines’ are infusing self-replicating synthetic genetic material into the cells to cumulatively take us on the Totalitarian Tiptoe from Human 1.0 to the synthetic biological Human 2.0 which will be physically and perceptually a ached to the Smart Grid to one hundred percent control every thought, perception and deed. Humanity needs to wake up and fast.  This is the barest explanation of where the ‘outcome’ is planned to go but it’s enough to see the journey happening all around us. Those new to this information will already see ‘Covid’ in a whole new context. I will add much more detail as we go along, but for the minutiae evidence see my mega-works, The Answer, The Trigger and Everything You Need to Know But Have Never Been Told.  Now – how does a Renegade Mind see the ‘world’?  CHAPTER TWO

 Renegade Perception

It is one thing to be clever and another to be wise  George R.R. Martin



A simple deﬁnition of the diﬀerence between a programmed mind and a Renegade Mind would be that one sees only dots while the other connects them to see the picture. Reading reality with accuracy requires the observer to (a) know the planned outcome and (b) realise that everything, but everything, is connected.  The entirety of inﬁnite reality is connected – that’s its very nature – and with human society an expression of inﬁnite reality the same must apply. Simple cause and eﬀect is a connection. The eﬀect is triggered by the cause and the eﬀect then becomes the cause of another eﬀect. Nothing happens in isolation because it can’t. Life in whatever reality is simple choice and consequence. We make choices and these lead to consequences. If we don’t like the consequences we can make diﬀerent choices and get diﬀerent consequences which lead to other choices and consequences. The choice and the consequence are not only connected they are indivisible. You can’t have one without the other as an old song goes. A few cannot control the world unless those being controlled allow that to happen – cause and eﬀect, choice and consequence. Control – who has it and who doesn’t – is a two-way process, a symbiotic relationship, involving the controller and controlled. ‘They took my freedom away!!’ Well, yes, but you also gave it to them. Humanity is subjected to mass control because humanity has acquiesced to that control. This is all cause and eﬀect and literally a case of give and take. In the same way world events of every kind are connected and the Cult works incessantly to sell the illusion of the random and coincidental to maintain the essential (to them) perception of dots that hide the picture. Renegade Minds know this and constantly scan the world for pa erns of connection. This is absolutely pivotal in understanding the happenings in the world and without that perspective clarity is impossible. First you know the planned outcome and then you identify the steps on the journey – the day-by- day apparently random which, when connected in relation to the outcome, no longer appear as individual events, but as the proverbial chain of events leading in the same direction. I’ll give you some examples:

Political puppet show We are told to believe that politics is ‘adversarial’ in that diﬀerent parties with diﬀerent beliefs engage in an endless tussle for power. There may have been some truth in that up to a point – and only a point – but today divisions between ‘diﬀerent’ parties are rhetorical not ideological. Even the rhetorical is fusing into one-speak as the parties eject any remaining free thinkers while others succumb to the ever-gathering intimidation of anyone with the ‘wrong’ opinion. The Cult is not a new phenomenon and can be traced back thousands of years as my books have documented. Its intergenerational initiates have been manipulating events with increasing eﬀect the more that global power has been centralised. In ancient times the Cult secured control through the system of monarchy in which ‘special’ bloodlines (of which more later) demanded the right to rule as kings and queens simply by birthright and by vanquishing others who claimed the same birthright. There came a time, however, when people had matured enough to see the unfairness of such tyranny and demanded a say in who governed them. Note the word – governed them. Not served them – governed them, hence government deﬁned as ‘the political direction and control exercised over the actions of the members, citizens, or inhabitants of communities, societies, and states; direction of the aﬀairs of a state, community, etc.’ Governments exercise control over rather than serve just like the monarchies before them. Bizarrely there are still countries like the United Kingdom which are ruled by a monarch and a government that oﬃcially answers to the monarch. The UK head of state and that of Commonwealth countries such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand is ‘selected’ by who in a single family had unprotected sex with whom and in what order. Pinch me it can’t be true. Ouch! Shit, it is. The demise of monarchies in most countries oﬀered a potential vacuum in which some form of free and fair society could arise and the Cult had that base covered. Monarchies had served its interests but they couldn’t continue in the face of such widespread opposition and, anyway, replacing a ‘royal’ dictatorship that people could see with a dictatorship ‘of the people’ hiding behind the concept of ‘democracy’ presented far greater manipulative possibilities and ways of hiding coordinated tyranny behind the illusion of ‘freedom’.  Democracy is quite wrongly deﬁned as government selected by the population. This is not the case at all. It is government selected by some of the population (and then only in theory). This ‘some’ doesn’t even have to be the majority as we have seen so o en in ﬁrst- past-the-post elections in which the so-called majority party wins fewer votes than the ‘losing’ parties combined. Democracy can give total power to a party in government from a minority of the votes cast. It’s a sleight of hand to sell tyranny as freedom. Seventy-four million Trump-supporting Americans didn’t vote for the ‘Democratic’ Party of Joe Biden in the distinctly dodgy election in 2020 and yet far from acknowledging the wishes and feelings of that great percentage of American society the Cult-owned Biden government set out from day one to destroy them and their right to a voice and opinion. Empty shell Biden and his Cult handlers said they were doing this to ‘protect democracy’. Such is the level of lunacy and sickness to which politics has descended. Connect the dots and relate them to the desired outcome – a world government run by self-appointed technocrats and no longer even elected politicians. While operating through its political agents in government the Cult is at the same time encouraging public distain for politicians by pu ing idiots and incompetents in theoretical power on the road to deleting them. The idea is to instil a public reaction that says of the technocrats: ‘Well, they couldn’t do any worse than the pathetic politicians.’ It’s all about controlling perception and Renegade Minds can see through that while programmed minds cannot when they are ignorant of both the planned outcome and the manipulation techniques employed to secure that end. This knowledge can be learned, however, and fast if people choose to get informed. Politics may at ﬁrst sight appear very diﬃcult to control from a central point. I mean look at the ‘diﬀerent’ parties and how would you be able to oversee them all and their constituent parts? In truth, it’s very straightforward because of their structure. We are back to the pyramid of imposition and acquiescence. Organisations are structured in the same way as the system as a whole. Political parties are not open forums of free expression. They are hierarchies. I was a national spokesman for the British Green Party which claimed to be a diﬀerent kind of politics in which inﬂuence and power was devolved; but I can tell you from direct experience – and it’s far worse now – that Green parties are run as hierarchies like all the others however much they may try to hide that fact or kid themselves that it’s not true. A very few at the top of all political parties are directing policy and personnel. They decide if you are elevated in the party or serve as a government minister and to do that you have to be a yes man or woman. Look at all the maverick political thinkers who never ascended the greasy pole. If you want to progress within the party or reach ‘high-oﬃce’ you need to fall into line and conform. Exceptions to this are rare indeed. Should you want to run for parliament or Congress you have to persuade the local or state level of the party to select you and for that you need to play the game as dictated by the hierarchy. If you secure election and wish to progress within the greater structure you need to go on conforming to what is acceptable to those running the hierarchy from the peak of the pyramid. Political parties are perceptual gulags and the very fact that there are party ‘Whips’ appointed to ‘whip’ politicians into voting the way the hierarchy demands exposes the ridiculous idea that politicians are elected to serve the people they are supposed to represent. Cult operatives and manipulation has long seized control of major parties that have any chance of forming a government and at least most of those that haven’t. A new party forms and the Cult goes to work to inﬁltrate and direct. This has reached such a level today that you see video compilations of ‘leaders’ of all parties whether Democrats, Republicans, Conservative, Labour and Green parroting the same Cult mantra of ‘Build Back Be er’ and the ‘Great Reset’ which are straight oﬀ the Cult song-sheet to describe the transformation of global society in response to the Cult-instigated hoaxes of the ‘Covid pandemic’ and human-caused ‘climate change’. To see Caroline Lucas, the Green Party MP that I knew when I was in the party in the 1980s, speaking in support of plans proposed by Cult operative Klaus Schwab representing the billionaire global elite is a real head-shaker.

Many parties – one master The party system is another mind-trick and was instigated to change the nature of the dictatorship by swapping ‘royalty’ for dark suits that people believed – though now ever less so – represented their interests. Understanding this trick is to realise that a single force (the Cult) controls all parties either directly in terms of the major ones or through manipulation of perception and ideology with others. You don’t need to manipulate Green parties to demand your transformation of society in the name of ‘climate change’ when they are obsessed with the lie that this is essential to ‘save the planet’. You just give them a platform and away they go serving your interests while believing they are being environmentally virtuous. America’s political structure is a perfect blueprint for how the two or multi- party system is really a one-party state. The Republican Party is controlled from one step back in the shadows by a group made up of billionaires and their gofers known as neoconservatives or Neocons. I have exposed them in ﬁne detail in my books and they were the driving force behind the policies of the imbecilic presidency of Boy George Bush which included 9/11 (see The Trigger for a comprehensive demolition of the oﬃcial story), the subsequent ‘war on terror’ (war of terror) and the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. The la er was a No-Problem-Reaction-Solution based on claims by Cult operatives, including Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, about Saddam Hussein’s ‘weapons of mass destruction’ which did not exist as war criminals Bush and Blair well knew.




Figure 6: Different front people, different parties – same control system.

The Democratic Party has its own ‘Neocon’ group controlling from the background which I call the ‘Democons’ and here’s the penny-drop – the Neocons and Democons answer to the same masters one step further back into the shadows (Fig 6). At that level of the Cult the Republican and Democrat parties are controlled by the same people and no ma er which is in power the Cult is in power. This is how it works in almost every country and certainly in Britain with Conservative, Labour, Liberal Democrat and Green parties now all on the same page whatever the rhetoric may be in their feeble a empts to appear diﬀerent. Neocons operated at the time of Bush through a think tank called The Project for the New American Century which in September, 2000, published a document entitled Rebuilding America’s Defenses: Strategies, Forces, and Resources For a New Century demanding that America ﬁght ‘multiple, simultaneous major theatre wars’ as a ‘core mission’ to force regime- change in countries including Iraq, Libya and Syria. Neocons arranged for Bush (‘Republican’) and Blair (‘Labour Party’) to front- up the invasion of Iraq and when they departed the Democons orchestrated the targeting of Libya and Syria through Barack Obama (‘Democrat’) and British Prime Minister David Cameron (‘Conservative Party’). We have ‘diﬀerent’ parties and ‘diﬀerent’ people, but the same unfolding script. The more the Cult has seized the reigns of parties and personnel the more their policies have transparently pursued the same agenda to the point where the fascist ‘Covid’ impositions of the Conservative junta of Jackboot Johnson in Britain were opposed by the Labour Party because they were not fascist enough. The Labour Party is likened to the US Democrats while the Conservative Party is akin to a British version of the Republicans and on both sides of the Atlantic they all speak the same language and support the direction demanded by the Cult although some more enthusiastically than others. It’s a similar story in country a er country because it’s all centrally controlled. Oh, but what about Trump? I’ll come to him shortly. Political ‘choice’ in the ‘party’ system goes like this: You vote for Party A and they get into government. You don’t like what they do so next time you vote for Party B and they get into government. You don’t like what they do when it’s pre y much the same as Party A and why wouldn’t that be with both controlled by the same force? Given that only two, sometimes three, parties have any chance of forming a government to get rid of Party B that you don’t like you have to vote again for Party A which … you don’t like. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what they call ‘democracy’ which we are told – wrongly – is a term interchangeable with ‘freedom’.

The cult of cults At this point I need to introduce a major expression of the Global Cult known as Sabbatian-Frankism. Sabbatian is also spelt as Sabbatean. I will summarise here. I have published major exposés and detailed background in other works. Sabbatian-Frankism combines the names of two frauds posing as ‘Jewish’ men, Sabbatai Zevi (1626-1676), a rabbi, black magician and occultist who proclaimed he was the Jewish messiah; and Jacob Frank (1726-1791), the Polish ‘Jew’, black magician and occultist who said he was the reincarnation of ‘messiah’ Zevi and biblical patriarch Jacob. They worked across two centuries to establish the Sabbatian-Frankist cult that plays a major, indeed central, role in the manipulation of human society by the Global Cult which has its origins much further back in history than Sabbatai Zevi. I should emphasise two points here in response to the shrill voices that will scream ‘anti-Semitism’: (1) Sabbatian-Frankists are NOT Jewish and only pose as such to hide their cult behind a Jewish façade; and (2) my information about this cult has come from Jewish sources who have long realised that their society and community has been inﬁltrated and taken over by interloper Sabbatian-Frankists. Inﬁltration has been the foundation technique of Sabbatian-Frankism from its oﬃcial origin in the 17th century. Zevi’s Sabbatian sect a racted a massive following described as the biggest messianic movement in Jewish history, spreading as far as Africa and Asia, and he promised a return for the Jews to the ‘Promised Land’ of Israel. Sabbatianism was not Judaism but an inversion of everything that mainstream Judaism stood for. So much so that this sinister cult would have a feast day when Judaism had a fast day and whatever was forbidden in Judaism the Sabbatians were encouraged and even commanded to do. This included incest and what would be today called Satanism. Members were forbidden to marry outside the sect and there was a system of keeping their children ignorant of what they were part of until they were old enough to be trusted not to unknowingly reveal anything to outsiders. The same system is employed to this day by the Global Cult in general which Sabbatian-Frankism has enormously inﬂuenced and now largely controls.  Zevi and his Sabbatians suﬀered a setback with the intervention by the Sultan of the Islamic O oman Empire in the Middle East and what is now the Republic of Turkey where Zevi was located. The Sultan gave him the choice of proving his ‘divinity’, converting to Islam or facing torture and death. Funnily enough Zevi chose to convert or at least appear to. Some of his supporters were disillusioned and dri ed away, but many did not with 300 families also converting – only in theory – to Islam. They continued behind this Islamic smokescreen to follow the goals, rules and rituals of Sabbatianism and became known as ‘crypto-Jews’ or the ‘Dönmeh’ which means ‘to turn’. This is rather ironic because they didn’t ‘turn’ and instead hid behind a fake Islamic persona. The process of appearing to be one thing while being very much another would become the calling card of Sabbatianism especially a er Zevi’s death and the arrival of the Satanist Jacob Frank in the 18th century when the cult became Sabbatian-Frankism and plumbed still new depths of depravity and inﬁltration which included – still includes – human sacriﬁce and sex with children. Wherever Sabbatians go paedophilia and Satanism follow and is it really a surprise that Hollywood is so infested with child abuse and Satanism when it was established by Sabbatian-Frankists and is still controlled by them? Hollywood has been one of the prime vehicles for global perceptual programming and manipulation. How many believe the version of ‘history’ portrayed in movies when it is a travesty and inversion (again) of the truth? Rabbi Marvin Antelman describes Frankism in his book, To Eliminate the Opiate, as ‘a movement of complete evil’ while Jewish professor Gershom Scholem said of Frank in The Messianic Idea in Judaism: ‘In all his actions [he was] a truly corrupt and degenerate individual ... one of the most frightening phenomena in the whole of Jewish history.’ Frank was excommunicated by traditional rabbis, as was Zevi, but Frank was undeterred and enjoyed vital support from the House of Rothschild, the infamous banking dynasty whose inner-core are Sabbatian-Frankists and not Jews. Inﬁltration of the Roman Church and Vatican was instigated by Frank with many Dönmeh ‘turning’ again to convert to Roman Catholicism with a view to hĳacking the reins of power. This was the ever-repeating modus operandi and continues to be so. Pose as an advocate of the religion, culture or country that you want to control and then manipulate your people into the positions of authority and inﬂuence largely as advisers, administrators and Svengalis for those that appear to be in power. They did this with Judaism, Christianity (Christian Zionism is part of this), Islam and other religions and nations until Sabbatian-Frankism spanned the world as it does today.

Sabbatian Saudis and the terror network One expression of the Sabbatian-Frankist Dönmeh within Islam is the ruling family of Saudi Arabia, the House of Saud, through which came the vile distortion of Islam known as Wahhabism. This is the violent creed followed by terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda and ISIS or Islamic State. Wahhabism is the hand-chopping, head-chopping ‘religion’ of Saudi Arabia which is used to keep the people in a constant state of fear so the interloper House of Saud can continue to rule. Al-Qaeda and Islamic State were lavishly funded by the House of Saud while being created and directed by the Sabbatian-Frankist network in the United States that operates through the Pentagon, CIA and the government in general of whichever ‘party’. The front man for the establishment of Wahhabism in the middle of the 18th century was a Sabbatian-Frankist ‘crypto-Jew’ posing as Islamic called Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab. His daughter would marry the son of Muhammad bin Saud who established the ﬁrst Saudi state before his death in 1765 with support from the British Empire. Bin Saud’s successors would establish modern Saudi Arabia in league with the British and Americans in 1932 which allowed them to seize control of Islam’s major shrines in Mecca and Medina. They have dictated the direction of Sunni Islam ever since while Iran is the major centre of the Shiite version and here we have the source of at least the public conﬂict between them. The Sabbatian network has used its Wahhabi extremists to carry out Problem-Reaction-Solution terrorist a acks in the name of ‘Al-Qaeda’ and ‘Islamic State’ to justify a devastating ‘war on terror’, ever-increasing surveillance of the population and to terrify people into compliance. Another insight of the Renegade Mind is the streetwise understanding that just because a country, location or people are a acked doesn’t mean that those apparently representing that country, location or people are not behind the a ackers. O en they are orchestrating the a acks because of the societal changes that can be then justiﬁed in the name of ‘saving the population from terrorists’. I show in great detail in The Trigger how Sabbatian-Frankists were the real perpetrators of 9/11 and not ‘19 Arab hĳackers’ who were blamed for what happened. Observe what was justiﬁed in the name of 9/11 alone in terms of Middle East invasions, mass surveillance and control that fulﬁlled the demands of the Project for the New American Century document published by the Sabbatian Neocons. What appear to be enemies are on the deep inside players on the same Sabbatian team. Israel and Arab ‘royal’ dictatorships are all ruled by Sabbatians and the recent peace agreements between Israel and Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and others are only making formal what has always been the case behind the scenes. Palestinians who have been subjected to grotesque tyranny since Israel was bombed and terrorised into existence in 1948 have never stood a chance. Sabbatian-Frankists have controlled Israel (so the constant theme of violence and war which Sabbatians love) and they have controlled the Arab countries that Palestinians have looked to for real support that never comes. ‘Royal families’ of the Arab world in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, UAE, etc., are all Sabbatians with allegiance to the aims of the cult and not what is best for their Arabic populations. They have stolen the oil and ﬁnancial resources from their people by false claims to be ‘royal dynasties’ with a genetic right to rule and by employing vicious militaries to impose their will.

Satanic ‘illumination’ The Satanist Jacob Frank formed an alliance in 1773 with two other Sabbatians, Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744-1812), founder of the Rothschild banking dynasty, and Jesuit-educated fraudulent Jew, Adam Weishaupt, and this led to the formation of the Bavarian Illuminati, ﬁrstly under another name, in 1776. The Illuminati would be the manipulating force behind the French Revolution (1789-1799) and was also involved in the American Revolution (1775-1783) before and a er the Illuminati’s oﬃcial creation. Weishaupt would later become (in public) a Protestant Christian in archetypal Sabbatian style. I read that his name can be decoded as Adam-Weis- haupt or ‘the ﬁrst man to lead those who know’. He wasn’t a leader in the sense that he was a subordinate, but he did lead those below him in a crusade of transforming human society that still continues today. The theme was conﬁrmed as early as 1785 when a horseman courier called Lanz was reported to be struck by lighting and extensive Illuminati documents were found in his saddlebags. They made the link to Weishaupt and detailed the plan for world takeover. Current events with ‘Covid’ fascism have been in the making for a very long time. Jacob Frank was jailed for 13 years by the Catholic Inquisition a er his arrest in 1760 and on his release he headed for Frankfurt, Germany, home city and headquarters of the House of Rothschild where the alliance was struck with Mayer Amschel Rothschild and Weishaupt. Rothschild arranged for Frank to be given the title of Baron and he became a wealthy nobleman with a big following of Jews in Germany, the Austro-Hungarian Empire and other European countries. Most of them would have believed he was on their side.  The name ‘Illuminati’ came from the Zohar which is a body of works in the Jewish mystical ‘bible’ called the Kabbalah. ‘Zohar’ is the foundation of Sabbatian-Frankist belief and in Hebrew ‘Zohar’ means ‘splendour’, ‘radiance’, ‘illuminated’, and so we have ‘Illuminati’. They claim to be the ‘Illuminated Ones’ from their knowledge systematically hidden from the human population and passed on through generations of carefully-chosen initiates in the global secret society network or Cult. Hidden knowledge includes an awareness of the Cult agenda for the world and the nature of our collective reality that I will explore later. Cult ‘illumination’ is symbolised by the torch held by the Statue of Liberty which was gi ed to New York by French Freemasons in Paris who knew exactly what it represents. ‘Liberty’ symbolises the goddess worshipped in Babylon as Queen Semiramis or Ishtar. The signiﬁcance of this will become clear. Notice again the ubiquitous theme of inversion with the Statue of ‘Liberty’ really symbolising mass control (Fig 7). A mirror-image statute stands on an island in the River Seine in Paris from where New York Liberty originated (Fig 8). A large replica of the Liberty ﬂame stands on top of the Pont de l’Alma tunnel in Paris where Princess Diana died in a Cult ritual described in The Biggest Secret. Lucifer ‘the light bringer’ is related to all this (and much more as we’ll see) and ‘Lucifer’ is a central ﬁgure in Sabbatian-Frankism and its associated Satanism. Sabbatians reject the Jewish Torah, or Pentateuch, the ‘ﬁve books of Moses’ in the Old Testament known as Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy which are claimed by Judaism and Christianity to have been dictated by ‘God’ to Moses on Mount Sinai. Sabbatians say these do not apply to them and they seek to replace them with the Zohar to absorb Judaism and its followers into their inversion which is an expression of a much greater global inversion. They want to delete all religions and force humanity to worship a one-world religion – Sabbatian Satanism that also includes worship of the Earth goddess. Satanic themes are being more and more introduced into mainstream society and while Christianity is currently the foremost target for destruction the others are planned to follow.




Figure 7: The Cult goddess of Babylon disguised as the Statue of Liberty holding the flame of Lucifer the ‘light bringer’. Figure 8: Liberty’s mirror image in Paris where the New York version originated.


Marx brothers Rabbi Marvin Antelman connects the Illuminati to the Jacobins in To Eliminate the Opiate and Jacobins were the force behind the French Revolution. He links both to the Bund der Gerechten, or League of the Just, which was the network that inﬂicted communism/Marxism on the world. Antelman wrote:

The original inner circle of the Bund der Gerechten consisted of born Catholics, Protestants and Jews [Sabbatian-Frankist infiltrators], and those representatives of respective subdivisions formulated schemes for the ultimate destruction of their faiths. The heretical Catholics laid plans which they felt would take a century or more for the ultimate destruction of the church; the apostate Jews for the ultimate destruction of the Jewish religion.


Sabbatian-created communism connects into this anti-religion agenda in that communism does not allow for the free practice of religion. The Sabbatian ‘Bund’ became the International Communist Party and Communist League and in 1848 ‘Marxism’ was born with the Communist Manifesto of Sabbatian assets Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. It is absolutely no coincidence that Marxism, just a diﬀerent name for fascist and other centrally-controlled tyrannies, is being imposed worldwide as a result of the ‘Covid’ hoax and nor that Marxist/fascist China was the place where the hoax originated. The reason for this will become very clear in the chapter ‘Covid: The calculated catastrophe’. The so-called ‘Woke’ mentality has hĳacked traditional beliefs of the political le and replaced them with far- right make-believe ‘social justice’ be er known as Marxism. Woke will, however, be swallowed by its own perceived ‘revolution’ which is really the work of billionaires and billionaire corporations feigning being ‘Woke’. Marxism is being touted by Wokers as a replacement for ‘capitalism’ when we don’t have ‘capitalism’. We have cartelism in which the market is stitched up by the very Cult billionaires and corporations bankrolling Woke. Billionaires love Marxism which keeps the people in servitude while they control from the top. Terminally naïve Wokers think they are ‘changing the world’ when it’s the Cult that is doing the changing and when they have played their vital part and become surplus to requirements they, too, will be targeted. The Illuminati-Jacobins were behind the period known as ‘The Terror’ in the French Revolution in 1793 and 1794 when Jacobin Maximillian de Robespierre and his Orwellian ‘Commi ee of Public Safety’ killed 17,000 ‘enemies of the Revolution’ who had once been ‘friends of the Revolution’. Karl Marx (1818-1883), whose Sabbatian creed of Marxism has cost the lives of at least 100 million people, is a hero once again to Wokers who have been systematically kept ignorant of real history by their ‘education’ programming. As a result they now promote a Sabbatian ‘Marxist’ abomination destined at some point to consume them. Rabbi Antelman, who spent decades researching the Sabbatian plot, said of the League of the Just and Karl Marx:

Contrary to popular opinion Karl Marx did not originate the Communist Manifesto. He was paid for his services by the League of the Just, which was known in its country of origin, Germany, as the Bund der Geaechteten.


Antelman said the text a ributed to Marx was the work of other people and Marx ‘was only repeating what others already said’. Marx was ‘a hired hack – lackey of the wealthy Illuminists’. Marx famously said that religion was the ‘opium of the people’ (part of the Sabbatian plan to demonise religion) and Antelman called his books, To Eliminate the Opiate. Marx was born Jewish, but his family converted to Christianity (Sabbatian modus operandi) and he a acked Jews, not least in his book, A World Without Jews. In doing so he supported the Sabbatian plan to destroy traditional Jewishness and Judaism which we are clearly seeing today with the vindictive targeting of orthodox Jews by the Sabbatian government of Israel over ‘Covid’ laws. I don’t follow any religion and it has done much damage to the world over centuries and acted as a perceptual straightjacket. Renegade Minds, however, are always asking why something is being done. It doesn’t ma er if they agree or disagree with what is happening – why is it happening is the question. The ‘why?’ can be answered with regard to religion in that religions create interacting communities of believers when the Cult wants to dismantle all discourse, unity and interaction (see ‘Covid’ lockdowns) and the ultimate goal is to delete all religions for a one- world religion of Cult Satanism worshipping their ‘god’ of which more later. We see the same ‘why?’ with gun control in America. I don’t have guns and don’t want them, but why is the Cult seeking to disarm the population at the same time that law enforcement agencies are armed to their molars and why has every tyrant in history sought to disarm people before launching the ﬁnal takeover? They include Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot and Mao who followed conﬁscation with violent seizing of power. You know it’s a Cult agenda by the people who immediately race to the microphones to exploit dead people in multiple shootings. Ultra-Zionist Cult lackey Senator Chuck Schumer was straight on the case a er ten people were killed in Boulder, Colorado in March, 2121. Simple rule … if Schumer wants it the Cult wants it and the same with his ultra- Zionist mate the wild-eyed Senator Adam Schiﬀ. At the same time they were calling for the disarmament of Americans, many of whom live a long way from a police response, Schumer, Schiﬀ and the rest of these pampered clowns were si ing on Capitol Hill behind a razor-wired security fence protected by thousands of armed troops in addition to their own armed bodyguards. Mom and pop in an isolated home? They’re just potential mass shooters.

Zion Mainframe Sabbatian-Frankists and most importantly the Rothschilds were behind the creation of ‘Zionism’, a political movement that demanded a Jewish homeland in Israel as promised by Sabbatai Zevi. The very symbol of Israel comes from the German meaning of the name Rothschild. Dynasty founder Mayer Amschel Rothschild changed the family name from Bauer to Rothschild, or ‘Red-Shield’ in German, in deference to the six-pointed ‘Star of David’ hexagram displayed on the family’s home in Frankfurt. The symbol later appeared on the ﬂag of Israel a er the Rothschilds were centrally involved in its creation. Hexagrams are not a uniquely Jewish symbol and are widely used in occult (‘hidden’) networks o en as a symbol for Saturn (see my other books for why). Neither are Zionism and Jewishness interchangeable. Zionism is a political movement and philosophy and not a ‘race’ or a people. Many Jews oppose Zionism and many non-Jews, including US President Joe Biden, call themselves Zionists as does Israel-centric Donald Trump. America’s support for the Israel government is pre y much a gimme with ultra-Zionist billionaires and corporations providing fantastic and dominant funding for both political parties. Former Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney has told how she was approached immediately she ran for oﬃce to ‘sign the pledge’ to Israel and conﬁrm that she would always vote in that country’s best interests. All American politicians are approached in this way. Anyone who refuses will get no support or funding from the enormous and all-powerful Zionist lobby that includes organisations like mega-lobby group AIPAC, the American Israel Public Aﬀairs Commi ee. Trump’s biggest funder was ultra-Zionist casino and media billionaire Sheldon Adelson while major funders of the Democratic Party include ultra-Zionist George Soros and ultra- Zionist ﬁnancial and media mogul, Haim Saban. Some may reel back at the suggestion that Soros is an Israel-ﬁrster (Sabbatian-controlled Israel-ﬁrster), but Renegade Minds watch the actions not the words and everywhere Soros donates his billions the Sabbatian agenda beneﬁts. In the spirit of Sabbatian inversion Soros pledged $1 billion for a new university network to promote ‘liberal values and tackle intolerance’. He made the announcement during his annual speech at the Cult-owned World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, 2020, a er his ‘harsh criticism’ of ‘authoritarian rulers’ around the world. You can only laugh at such brazen mendacity. How he doesn’t laugh is the mystery. Translated from the Orwellian ‘liberal values and tackle intolerance’ means teaching non-white people to hate white people and for white people to loathe themselves for being born white. The reason for that will become clear.

The ‘Anti-Semitism’ fraud Zionists support the Jewish homeland in the land of Palestine which has been the Sabbatian-Rothschild goal for so long, but not for the beneﬁt of Jews. Sabbatians and their global Anti-Semitism Industry have skewed public and political opinion to equate opposing the violent extremes of Zionism to be a blanket a ack and condemnation of all Jewish people. Sabbatians and their global Anti-Semitism Industry have skewed public and political opinion to equate opposing the violent extremes of Zionism to be a blanket a ack and condemnation of all Jewish people. This is nothing more than a Sabbatian protection racket to stop legitimate investigation and exposure of their agendas and activities. The oﬃcial deﬁnition of ‘anti-Semitism’ has more recently been expanded to include criticism of Zionism – a political movement – and this was done to further stop exposure of Sabbatian inﬁltrators who created Zionism as we know it today in the 19th century. Renegade Minds will talk about these subjects when they know the shit that will come their way. People must decide if they want to know the truth or just cower in the corner in fear of what others will say. Sabbatians have been trying to label me as ‘anti-Semitic’ since the 1990s as I have uncovered more and more about their background and agendas. Useless, gutless, fraudulent ‘journalists’ then just repeat the smears without question and on the day I was writing this section a pair of unquestioning repeaters called Ben Quinn and Archie Bland (how appropriate) outright called me an ‘anti-Semite’ in the establishment propaganda sheet, the London Guardian, with no supporting evidence. The Sabbatian Anti-Semitism Industry said so and who are they to question that? They wouldn’t dare. Ironically ‘Semitic’ refers to a group of languages in the Middle East that are almost entirely Arabic. ‘Anti-Semitism’ becomes ‘anti-Arab’ which if the consequences of this misunderstanding were not so grave would be hilarious. Don’t bother telling Quinn and Bland. I don’t want to confuse them, bless ‘em. One reason I am dubbed ‘anti-Semitic’ is that I wrote in the 1990s that Jewish operatives (Sabbatians) were heavily involved in the Russian Revolution when Sabbatians overthrew the Romanov dynasty. This apparently made me ‘anti- Semitic’. Oh, really? Here is a section from The Trigger:

British journalist Robert Wilton confirmed these themes in his 1920 book The Last Days of the Romanovs when he studied official documents from the Russian government to identify the members of the Bolshevik ruling elite between 1917 and 1919. The Central Committee included 41 Jews among 62 members; the Council of the People’s Commissars had 17 Jews out of 22 members; and 458 of the 556 most important Bolshevik positions between 1918 and 1919 were occupied by Jewish people. Only 17 were Russian. Then there were the 23 Jews among the 36 members of the vicious Cheka Soviet secret police established in 1917 who would soon appear all across the country.

Professor Robert Service of Oxford University, an expert on 20th century Russian history, found evidence that [‘Jewish’] Leon Trotsky had sought to make sure that Jews were enrolled in the Red Army and were disproportionately represented in the Soviet civil bureaucracy that included the Cheka which performed mass arrests, imprisonment and executions of ‘enemies of the people’. A US State Department Decimal File (861.00/5339) dated November 13th, 1918, names [Rothschild banking agent in America] Jacob Schiff and a list of ultra-Zionists as funders of the Russian Revolution leading to claims of a ‘Jewish plot’, but the key point missed by all is they were not ‘Jews’ – they were Sabbatian-Frankists.


Britain’s Winston Churchill made the same error by mistake or otherwise. He wrote in a 1920 edition of the Illustrated Sunday Herald that those behind the Russian revolution were part of a ‘worldwide conspiracy for the overthrow of civilisation and for the reconstitution of society on the basis of arrested development, of envious malevolence, and impossible equality’ (see ‘Woke’ today because that has been created by the same network). Churchill said there was no need to exaggerate the part played in the creation of Bolshevism and in the actual bringing about of the Russian Revolution ‘by these international and for the most part atheistical Jews’ [‘atheistical Jews’ = Sabbatians]. Churchill said it is certainly a very great one and probably outweighs all others: ‘With the notable exception of Lenin, the majority of the leading ﬁgures are Jews.’ He went on to describe, knowingly or not, the Sabbatian modus operandi of placing puppet leaders nominally in power while they control from the background:

Moreover, the principal inspiration and driving power comes from the Jewish leaders. Thus Tchitcherin, a pure Russian, is eclipsed by his nominal subordinate, Litvinoff, and the influence of Russians like Bukharin or Lunacharski cannot be compared with the power of Trotsky, or of Zinovieff, the Dictator of the Red Citadel (Petrograd), or of Krassin or Radek – all Jews. In the Soviet institutions the predominance of Jews is even more astonishing. And the prominent, if not indeed the principal, part in the system of terrorism applied by the Extraordinary Commissions for Combatting Counter-Revolution has been taken by Jews, and in some notable cases by Jewesses.


What I said about seriously disproportionate involvement in the Russian Revolution by Jewish ‘revolutionaries’ (Sabbatians) is provable fact, but truth is no defence against the Sabbatian Anti- Semitism Industry, its repeater parrots like Quinn and Bland, and the now breathtaking network of so-called ‘Woke’ ‘anti-hate’ groups with interlocking leaderships and funding which have the role of discrediting and silencing anyone who gets too close to exposing the Sabbatians. We have seen ‘truth is no defence’ conﬁrmed in legal judgements with the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission in Canada decreeing this: ‘Truthful statements can be presented in a manner that would meet the deﬁnition of hate speech, and not all truthful statements must be free from restriction.’ Most ‘anti-hate’ activists, who are themselves consumed by hatred, are too stupid and ignorant of the world to know how they are being used. They are far too far up their own virtue-signalling arses and it’s far too dark for them to see anything.

The ‘revolution’ game The background and methods of the ‘Russian’ Revolution are straight from the Sabbatian playbook seen in the French Revolution and endless others around the world that appear to start as a revolution of the people against tyrannical rule and end up with a regime change to more tyrannical rule overtly or covertly. Wars, terror a acks and regime overthrows follow the Sabbatian cult through history with its agents creating them as Problem-Reaction- Solutions to remove opposition on the road to world domination. Sabbatian dots connect the Rothschilds with the Illuminati, Jacobins of the French Revolution, the ‘Bund’ or League of the Just, the International Communist Party, Communist League and the Communist Manifesto of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels that would lead to the Rothschild-funded Russian Revolution. The sequence comes under the heading of ‘creative destruction’ when you advance to your global goal by continually destroying the status quo to install a new status quo which you then also destroy. The two world wars come to mind. With each new status quo you move closer to your planned outcome. Wars and mass murder are to Sabbatians a collective blood sacriﬁce ritual. They are obsessed with death for many reasons and one is that death is an inversion of life. Satanists and Sabbatians are obsessed with death and o en target churches and churchyards for their rituals. Inversion-obsessed Sabbatians explain the use of inverted symbolism including the inverted pentagram and inverted cross. The inversion of the cross has been related to targeting Christianity, but the cross was a religious symbol long before Christianity and its inversion is a statement about the Sabbatian mentality and goals more than any single religion.  Sabbatians operating in Germany were behind the rise of the occult-obsessed Nazis and the subsequent Jewish exodus from Germany and Europe to Palestine and the United States a er World War Two. The Rothschild dynasty was at the forefront of this both as political manipulators and by funding the operation. Why would Sabbatians help to orchestrate the horrors inﬂicted on Jews by the Nazis and by Stalin a er they organised the Russian Revolution? Sabbatians hate Jews and their religion, that’s why. They pose as Jews and secure positions of control within Jewish society and play the ‘anti-Semitism’ card to protect themselves from exposure through a global network of organisations answering to the Sabbatian-created-and-controlled globe-spanning intelligence network that involves a stunning web of military-intelligence operatives and operations for a tiny country of just nine million. Among them are Jewish assets who are not Sabbatians but have been convinced by them that what they are doing is for the good of Israel and the Jewish community to protect them from what they have been programmed since childhood to believe is a Jew-hating hostile world. The Jewish community is just a highly convenient cover to hide the true nature of Sabbatians. Anyone ge ing close to exposing their game is accused by Sabbatian place-people and gofers of ‘anti- Semitism’ and claiming that all Jews are part of a plot to take over the world. I am not saying that. I am saying that Sabbatians – the real Jew-haters – have inﬁltrated the Jewish community to use them both as a cover and an ‘anti-Semitic’ defence against exposure. Thus we have the Anti-Semitism Industry targeted researchers in this way and most Jewish people think this is justiﬁed and genuine. They don’t know that their ‘Jewish’ leaders and institutions of state, intelligence and military are not controlled by Jews at all, but cultists and stooges of Sabbatian-Frankism. I once added my name to a pro- Jewish freedom petition online and the next time I looked my name was gone and text had been added to the petition blurb to a ack me as an ‘anti-Semite’ such is the scale of perceptual programming.

Moving on America I tell the story in The Trigger and a chapter called ‘Atlantic Crossing’ how particularly a er Israel was established the Sabbatians moved in on the United States and eventually grasped control of government administration, the political system via both Democrats and Republicans, the intelligence community like the CIA and National Security Agency (NSA), the Pentagon and mass media. Through this seriously compartmentalised network Sabbatians and their operatives in Mossad, Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) and US agencies pulled oﬀ 9/11 and blamed it on 19 ‘Al-Qaeda hĳackers’ dominated by men from, or connected to, Sabbatian-ruled Saudi Arabia. The ‘19’ were not even on the planes let alone ﬂew those big passenger jets into buildings while being largely incompetent at piloting one-engine light aircra . ‘Hĳacker’ Hani Hanjour who is said to have ﬂown American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon with a turn and manoeuvre most professional pilots said they would have struggled to do was banned from renting a small plane by instructors at the Freeway Airport in Bowie, Maryland, just six weeks earlier on the grounds that he was an incompetent pilot. The Jewish population of the world is just 0.2 percent with even that almost entirely concentrated in Israel (75 percent Jewish) and the United States (around two percent). This two percent and globally 0.2 percent refers to Jewish people and not Sabbatian interlopers who are a fraction of that fraction. What a sobering thought when you think of the fantastic inﬂuence on world aﬀairs of tiny Israel and that the Project for the New America Century (PNAC) which laid out the blueprint in September, 2000, for America’s war on terror and regime change wars in Iraq, Libya and Syria was founded and dominated by Sabbatians known as ‘Neocons’. The document conceded that this plan would not be supported politically or publicly without a major a ack on American soil and a Problem-Reaction-Solution excuse to send troops to war across the Middle East. Sabbatian Neocons said:

... [The] process of transformation ... [war and regime change] ... is likely to be a long one, absent some catastrophic and catalysing event – like a new Pearl Harbor.


Four months later many of those who produced that document came to power with their inane puppet George Bush from the long- time Sabbatian Bush family. They included Sabbatian Dick Cheney who was oﬃcially vice-president, but really de-facto president for the entirety of the ‘Bush’ government. Nine months a er the ‘Bush’ inauguration came what Bush called at the time ‘the Pearl Harbor of the 21st century’ and with typical Sabbatian timing and symbolism 2001 was the 60th anniversary of the a ack in 1941 by the Japanese Air Force on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, which allowed President Franklin Delano Roosevelt to take the United States into a Sabbatian- instigated Second World War that he said in his election campaign that he never would. The evidence is overwhelming that Roosevelt and his military and intelligence networks knew the a ack was coming and did nothing to stop it, but they did make sure that America’s most essential naval ships were not in Hawaii at the time. Three thousand Americans died in the Pearl Harbor a acks as they did on September 11th. By the 9/11 year of 2001 Sabbatians had widely inﬁltrated the US government, military and intelligence operations and used their compartmentalised assets to pull oﬀ the ‘Al-Qaeda’ a acks. If you read The Trigger it will blow your mind to see the u erly staggering concentration of ‘Jewish’ operatives (Sabbatian inﬁltrators) in essential positions of political, security, legal, law enforcement, ﬁnancial and business power before, during, and a er the a acks to make them happen, carry them out, and then cover their tracks – and I do mean staggering when you think of that 0.2 percent of the world population and two percent of Americans which are Jewish while Sabbatian inﬁltrators are a fraction of that. A central foundation of the 9/11 conspiracy was the hĳacking of government, military, Air Force and intelligence computer systems in real time through ‘back-door’ access made possible by Israeli (Sabbatian) ‘cyber security’ so ware. Sabbatian-controlled Israel is on the way to rivalling Silicon Valley for domination of cyberspace and is becoming the dominant force in cyber-security which gives them access to entire computer systems and their passcodes across the world. Then add to this that Zionists head (oﬃcially) Silicon Valley giants like Google (Larry Page and Sergey Brin), Google- owned YouTube (Susan Wojcicki), Facebook (Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg), and Apple (Chairman Arthur D. Levinson), and that ultra-Zionist hedge fund billionaire Paul Singer has a $1 billion stake in Twi er which is only nominally headed by ‘CEO’ pothead Jack Dorsey. As cable news host Tucker Carlson said of Dorsey: ‘There used to be debate in the medical community whether dropping a ton of acid had permanent eﬀects and I think that debate has now ended.’ Carlson made the comment a er Dorsey told a hearing on Capitol Hill (if you cut through his bullshit) that he believed in free speech so long as he got to decide what you can hear and see. These ‘big names’ of Silicon Valley are only front men and women for the Global Cult, not least the Sabbatians, who are the true controllers of these corporations. Does anyone still wonder why these same people and companies have been ferociously censoring and banning people (like me) for exposing any aspect of the Cult agenda and especially the truth about the ‘Covid’ hoax which Sabbatians have orchestrated?  The Jeﬀrey Epstein paedophile ring was a Sabbatian operation. He was oﬃcially ‘Jewish’ but he was a Sabbatian and women abused by the ring have told me about the high number of ‘Jewish’ people involved. The Epstein horror has Sabbatian wri en all over it and matches perfectly their modus operandi and obsession with sex and ritual. Epstein was running a Sabbatian blackmail ring in which famous people with political and other inﬂuence were provided with young girls for sex while everything was being ﬁlmed and recorded on hidden cameras and microphones at his New York house, Caribbean island and other properties. Epstein survivors have described this surveillance system to me and some have gone public. Once the famous politician or other ﬁgure knew he or she was on video they tended to do whatever they were told. Here we go again …when you’ve got them by the balls their hearts and minds will follow. Sabbatians use this blackmail technique on a wide scale across the world to entrap politicians and others they need to act as demanded. Epstein’s private plane, the infamous ‘Lolita Express’, had many well-known passengers including Bill Clinton while Bill Gates has ﬂown on an Epstein plane and met with him four years a er Epstein had been jailed for paedophilia. They subsequently met many times at Epstein’s home in New York according to a witness who was there. Epstein’s infamous side-kick was Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of Mossad agent and ultra-Zionist mega-crooked British businessman, Bob Maxwell, who at one time owned the Daily Mirror newspaper. Maxwell was murdered at sea on his boat in 1991 by Sabbatian-controlled Mossad when he became a liability with his business empire collapsing as a former Mossad operative has conﬁrmed (see The Trigger).

Money, money, money, funny money … Before I come to the Sabbatian connection with the last three US presidents I will lay out the crucial importance to Sabbatians of controlling banking and ﬁnance. Sabbatian Mayer Amschel Rothschild set out to dominate this arena in his family’s quest for total global control. What is freedom? It is, in eﬀect, choice. The more choices you have the freer you are and the fewer your choices the more you are enslaved. In the global structure created over centuries by Sabbatians the biggest decider and restrictor of choice is … money. Across the world if you ask people what they would like to do with their lives and why they are not doing that they will reply ‘I don’t have the money’. This is the idea. A global elite of multi- billionaires are described as ‘greedy’ and that is true on one level; but control of money – who has it and who doesn’t – is not primarily about greed. It’s about control. Sabbatians have seized ever more control of ﬁnance and sucked the wealth of the world out of the hands of the population. We talk now, a er all, about the ‘One- percent’ and even then the wealthiest are a lot fewer even than that. This has been made possible by a money scam so outrageous and so vast it could rightly be called the scam of scams founded on creating ‘money’ out of nothing and ‘loaning’ that with interest to the population. Money out of nothing is called ‘credit’. Sabbatians have asserted control over governments and banking ever more completely through the centuries and secured ﬁnancial laws that allow banks to lend hugely more than they have on deposit in a conﬁdence trick known as fractional reserve lending. Imagine if you could lend money that doesn’t exist and charge the recipient interest for doing so. You would end up in jail. Bankers by contrast end up in mansions, private jets, Malibu and Monaco.  Banks are only required to keep a fraction of their deposits and wealth in their vaults and they are allowed to lend ‘money’ they don’t have called ‘credit. Go into a bank for a loan and if you succeed the banker will not move any real wealth into your account. They will type into your account the amount of the agreed ‘loan’ – say £100,000. This is not wealth that really exists; it is non-existent, fresh- air, created-out-of-nothing ‘credit’ which has never, does not, and will never exist except in theory. Credit is backed by nothing except wind and only has buying power because people think that it has buying power and accept it in return for property, goods and services. I have described this situation as like those cartoon characters you see chasing each other and when they run over the edge of a cliﬀ they keep running forward on fresh air until one of them looks down, realises what’s happened, and they all crash into the ravine. The whole foundation of the Sabbatian ﬁnancial system is to stop people looking down except for periodic moments when they want to crash the system (as in 2008 and 2020 ongoing) and reap the rewards from all the property, businesses and wealth their borrowers had signed over as ‘collateral’ in return for a ‘loan’ of fresh air. Most people think that money is somehow created by governments when it comes into existence from the start as a debt through banks ‘lending’ illusory money called credit. Yes, the very currency of exchange is a debt from day one issued as an interest-bearing loan. Why don’t governments create money interest-free and lend it to their people interest-free? Governments are controlled by Sabbatians and the ﬁnancial system is controlled by Sabbatians for whom interest-free money would be a nightmare come true. Sabbatians underpin their ﬁnancial domination through their global network of central banks, including the privately-owned US Federal Reserve and Britain’s Bank of England, and this is orchestrated by a privately-owned central bank coordination body called the Bank for International Se lements in Basle, Switzerland, created by the usual suspects including the Rockefellers and Rothschilds. Central bank chiefs don’t answer to governments or the people. They answer to the Bank for International Se lements or, in other words, the Global Cult which is dominated today by Sabbatians.

Built-in disaster There are so many constituent scams within the overall banking scam. When you take out a loan of thin-air credit only the amount of that loan is theoretically brought into circulation to add to the amount in circulation; but you are paying back the principle plus interest. The additional interest is not created and this means that with every ‘loan’ there is a shortfall in the money in circulation between what is borrowed and what has to be paid back. There is never even close to enough money in circulation to repay all outstanding public and private debt including interest. Coldly weaved in the very fabric of the system is the certainty that some will lose their homes, businesses and possessions to the banking ‘lender’. This is less obvious in times of ‘boom’ when the amount of money in circulation (and the debt) is expanding through more people wanting and ge ing loans. When a downturn comes and the money supply contracts it becomes painfully obvious that there is not enough money to service all debt and interest. This is less obvious in times of ‘boom’ when the amount of money in circulation (and the debt) is expanding through more people wanting and ge ing loans. When a downturn comes and the money supply contracts and it becomes painfully obvious – as in 2008 and currently – that there is not enough money to service all debt and interest. Sabbatian banksters have been leading the human population through a calculated series of booms (more debt incurred) and busts (when the debt can’t be repaid and the banks get the debtor’s tangible wealth in exchange for non-existent ‘credit’). With each ‘bust’ Sabbatian bankers have absorbed more of the world’s tangible wealth and we end up with the One-percent. Governments are in bankruptcy levels of debt to the same system and are therefore owned by a system they do not control. The Federal Reserve, ‘America’s central bank’, is privately-owned and American presidents only nominally appoint its chairman or woman to maintain the illusion that it’s an arm of government. It’s not. The ‘Fed’ is a cartel of private banks which handed billions to its associates and friends a er the crash of 2008 and has been Sabbatian- controlled since it was manipulated into being in 1913 through the covert trickery of Rothschild banking agents Jacob Schiﬀ and Paul Warburg, and the Sabbatian Rockefeller family. Somehow from a Jewish population of two-percent and globally 0.2 percent (Sabbatian interlopers remember are far smaller) ultra-Zionists headed the Federal Reserve for 31 years between 1987 and 2018 in the form of Alan Greenspan, Bernard Bernanke and Janet Yellen (now Biden’s Treasury Secretary) with Yellen’s deputy chairman a Israeli- American duel citizen and ultra-Zionist Stanley Fischer, a former governor of the Bank of Israel. Ultra-Zionist Fed chiefs spanned the presidencies of Ronald Reagan (‘Republican’), Father George Bush (‘Republican’), Bill Clinton (‘Democrat’), Boy George Bush (‘Republican’) and Barack Obama (‘Democrat’). We should really add the pre-Greenspan chairman, Paul Adolph Volcker, ‘appointed’ by Jimmy Carter (‘Democrat’) who ran the Fed between 1979 and 1987 during the Carter and Reagan administrations before Greenspan took over. Volcker was a long-time associate and business partner of the Rothschilds. No ma er what the ‘party’ oﬃcially in power the United States economy was directed by the same force. Here are members of the Obama, Trump and Biden administrations and see if you can make out a common theme.

Barack Obama (‘Democrat’) Ultra-Zionists Robert Rubin, Larry Summers, and Timothy Geithner ran the US Treasury in the Clinton administration and two of them reappeared with Obama. Ultra-Zionist Fed chairman Alan Greenspan had manipulated the crash of 2008 through deregulation and jumped ship just before the disaster to make way for ultra- Zionist Bernard Bernanke to hand out trillions to Sabbatian ‘too big to fail’ banks and businesses, including the ubiquitous ultra-Zionist Goldman Sachs which has an ongoing staﬀ revolving door operation between itself and major ﬁnancial positions in government worldwide. Obama inherited the fallout of the crash when he took oﬃce in January, 2009, and fortunately he had the support of his ultra-Zionist White House Chief of Staﬀ Rahm Emmanuel, son of a terrorist who helped to bomb Israel into being in 1948, and his ultra- Zionist senior adviser David Axelrod, chief strategist in Obama’s two successful presidential campaigns. Emmanuel, later mayor of Chicago and former senior fundraiser and strategist for Bill Clinton, is an example of the Sabbatian policy a er Israel was established of migrating insider families to America so their children would be born American citizens. ‘Obama’ chose this ﬁnancial team throughout his administration to respond to the Sabbatian-instigated crisis:  Timothy Geithner (ultra-Zionist) Treasury Secretary; Jacob J. Lew, Treasury Secretary; Larry Summers (ultra-Zionist), director of the White House National Economic Council; Paul Adolph Volcker (Rothschild business partner), chairman of the Economic Recovery Advisory Board; Peter Orszag (ultra-Zionist), director of the Oﬃce of Management and Budget overseeing all government spending; Penny Pritzker (ultra-Zionist), Commerce Secretary; Jared Bernstein (ultra-Zionist), chief economist and economic policy adviser to Vice President Joe Biden; Mary Schapiro (ultra-Zionist), chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); Gary Gensler (ultra- Zionist), chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); Sheila Bair (ultra-Zionist), chair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); Karen Mills (ultra-Zionist), head of the Small Business Administration (SBA); Kenneth Feinberg (ultra- Zionist), Special Master for Executive [bail-out] Compensation. Feinberg would be appointed to oversee compensation (with strings) to 9/11 victims and families in a campaign to stop them having their day in court to question the oﬃcial story. At the same time ultra- Zionist Bernard Bernanke was chairman of the Federal Reserve and these are only some of the ultra-Zionists with allegiance to Sabbatian-controlled Israel in the Obama government. Obama’s biggest corporate donor was ultra-Zionist Goldman Sachs which had employed many in his administration.

Donald Trump (‘Republican’) Trump claimed to be an outsider (he wasn’t) who had come to ‘drain the swamp’. He embarked on this goal by immediately appointing ultra-Zionist Steve Mnuchin, a Goldman Sachs employee for 17 years, as his Treasury Secretary. Others included Gary Cohn (ultra- Zionist), chief operating oﬃcer of Goldman Sachs, his ﬁrst Director of the National Economic Council and chief economic adviser, who was later replaced by Larry Kudlow (ultra-Zionist). Trump’s senior adviser throughout his four years in the White House was his sinister son-in-law Jared Kushner, a life-long friend of Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Kushner is the son of a convicted crook who was pardoned by Trump in his last days in oﬃce. Other ultra-Zionists in the Trump administration included: Stephen Miller, Senior Policy Adviser; Avrahm Berkowitz, Deputy Adviser to Trump and his Senior Adviser Jared Kushner; Ivanka Trump, Adviser to the President, who converted to Judaism when she married Jared Kushner; David Friedman, Trump lawyer and Ambassador to Israel; Jason Greenbla , Trump Organization executive vice president and chief legal oﬃcer, who was made Special Representative for International Negotiations and the Israeli-Palestinian Conﬂict; Rod Rosenstein, Deputy A orney General; Elliot Abrams, Special Representative for Venezuela, then Iran; John Eisenberg, National Security Council Legal Adviser and Deputy Council to the President for National Security Aﬀairs; Anne Neuberger, Deputy National Manager, National Security Agency; Ezra Cohen-Watnick, Acting Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence; Elan Carr, Special Envoy to monitor and combat anti-Semitism; Len Khodorkovsky, Deputy Special Envoy to monitor and combat anti-Semitism; Reed Cordish, Assistant to the President, Intragovernmental and Technology Initiatives. Trump Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, both Christian Zionists, were also vehement supporters of Israel and its goals and ambitions.  Donald ‘free-speech believer’ Trump pardoned a number of ﬁnancial and violent criminals while ignoring calls to pardon Julian Assange and Edward Snowden whose crimes are revealing highly relevant information about government manipulation and corruption and the widespread illegal surveillance of the American people by US ‘security’ agencies. It’s so good to know that Trump is on the side of freedom and justice and not mega-criminals with allegiance to Sabbatian-controlled Israel. These included a pardon for Israeli spy Jonathan Pollard who was jailed for life in 1987 under the Espionage Act. Aviem Sella, the Mossad agent who recruited Pollard, was also pardoned by Trump while Assange sat in jail and Snowden remained in exile in Russia. Sella had ‘ﬂed’ (was helped to escape) to Israel in 1987 and was never extradited despite being charged under the Espionage Act. A Trump White House statement said that Sella’s clemency had been ‘supported by Benjamin Netanyahu, Ron Dermer, Israel’s US Ambassador, David Friedman, US Ambassador to Israel and Miriam Adelson, wife of leading Trump donor Sheldon Adelson who died shortly before. Other friends of Jared Kushner were pardoned along with Sholom Weiss who was believed to be serving the longest-ever white-collar prison sentence of more than 800 years in 2000. The sentence was commuted of Ponzi-schemer Eliyahu Weinstein who defrauded Jews and others out of $200 million. I did mention that Assange and Snowden were ignored, right? Trump gave Sabbatians almost everything they asked for in military and political support, moving the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem with its critical symbolic and literal implications for Palestinian statehood, and the ‘deal of the Century’ designed by Jared Kushner and David Friedman which gave the Sabbatian Israeli government the green light to substantially expand its already widespread program of building illegal Jewish-only se lements in the occupied land of the West Bank. This made a two-state ‘solution’ impossible by seizing all the land of a potential Palestinian homeland and that had been the plan since 1948 and then 1967 when the Arab-controlled Gaza Strip, West Bank, Sinai Peninsula and Syrian Golan Heights were occupied by Israel. All the talks about talks and road maps and delays have been buying time until the West Bank was physically occupied by Israeli real estate. Trump would have to be a monumentally ill-informed idiot not to see that this was the plan he was helping to complete. The Trump administration was in so many ways the Kushner administration which means the Netanyahu administration which means the Sabbatian administration. I understand why many opposing Cult fascism in all its forms gravitated to Trump, but he was a crucial part of the Sabbatian plan and I will deal with this in the next chapter.

Joe Biden (‘Democrat’) A barely cognitive Joe Biden took over the presidency in January, 2021, along with his fellow empty shell, Vice-President Kamala Harris, as the latest Sabbatian gofers to enter the White House. Names on the door may have changed and the ‘party’ – the force behind them remained the same as Zionists were appointed to a stream of pivotal areas relating to Sabbatian plans and policy. They included: Janet Yellen, Treasury Secretary, former head of the Federal Reserve, and still another ultra-Zionist running the US Treasury a er Mnuchin (Trump), Lew and Geithner (Obama), and Summers and Rubin (Clinton); Anthony Blinken, Secretary of State; Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of State (so that’s ‘Biden’s’ Sabbatian foreign policy sorted); Jeﬀ Zients, White House coronavirus coordinator; Rochelle Walensky, head of the Centers for Disease Control; Rachel Levine, transgender deputy health secretary (that’s ‘Covid’ hoax policy under control); Merrick Garland, A orney General; Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security; Cass Sunstein, Homeland Security with responsibility for new immigration laws; Avril Haines, Director of National Intelligence; Anne Neuberger, National Security Agency cybersecurity director (note, cybersecurity); David Cohen, CIA Deputy Director; Ronald Klain, Biden’s Chief of Staﬀ (see Rahm Emanuel); Eric Lander, a ‘leading geneticist’, Oﬃce of Science and Technology Policy director (see Smart Grid, synthetic biology agenda); Jessica Rosenworcel, acting head of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) which controls Smart Grid technology policy and electromagnetic communication systems including 5G. How can it be that so many pivotal positions are held by two-percent of the American population and 0.2 percent of the world population administration a er administration no ma er who is the president and what is the party? It’s a coincidence? Of course it’s not and this is why Sabbatians have built their colossal global web of interlocking ‘anti- hate’ hate groups to condemn anyone who asks these glaring questions as an ‘anti-Semite’. The way that Jewish people horriﬁcally abused in Sabbatian-backed Nazi Germany are exploited to this end is stomach-turning and disgusting beyond words.

Political fusion Sabbatian manipulation has reversed the roles of Republicans and Democrats and the same has happened in Britain with the Conservative and Labour Parties. Republicans and Conservatives were always labelled the ‘right’ and Democrats and Labour the ‘le ’, but look at the policy positions now and the Democrat-Labour ‘le ’ has moved further to the ‘right’ than Republicans and Conservatives under the banner of ‘Woke’, the Cult-created far-right tyranny. Where once the Democrat-Labour ‘le ’ defended free speech and human rights they now seek to delete them and as I said earlier despite the ‘Covid’ fascism of the Jackboot Johnson Conservative government in the UK the Labour Party of leader Keir Starmer demanded even more extreme measures. The Labour Party has been very publicly absorbed by Sabbatians a er a political and media onslaught against the previous leader, the weak and inept Jeremy Corbyn, over made-up allegations of ‘anti-Semitism’ both by him and his party. The plan was clear with this ‘anti-Semite’ propaganda and what was required in response was a swi and decisive ‘fuck oﬀ’ from Corbyn and a statement to expose the Anti-Semitism Industry (Sabbatian) a empt to silence Labour criticism of the Israeli government (Sabbatians) and purge the party of all dissent against the extremes of ultra-Zionism (Sabbatians). Instead Corbyn and his party fell to their knees and appeased the abusers which, by deﬁnition, is impossible. Appeasing one demand leads only to a new demand to be appeased until takeover is complete. Like I say – ‘fuck oﬀ’ would have been a much more eﬀective policy and I have used it myself with great eﬀect over the years when Sabbatians are on my case which is most of the time. I consider that fact a great compliment, by the way. The outcome of the Labour Party capitulation is that we now have a Sabbatian-controlled Conservative Party ‘opposed’ by a Sabbatian-controlled Labour Party in a one-party Sabbatian state that hurtles towards the extremes of tyranny (the Sabbatian cult agenda). In America the situation is the same. Labour’s Keir Starmer spends his days on his knees with his tongue out pointing to Tel Aviv, or I guess now Jerusalem, while Boris Johnson has an ‘anti-Semitism czar’ in the form of former Labour MP John Mann who keeps Starmer company on his prayer mat.  Sabbatian inﬂuence can be seen in Jewish members of the Labour Party who have been ejected for criticism of Israel including those from families that suﬀered in Nazi Germany. Sabbatians despise real Jewish people and target them even more harshly because it is so much more diﬃcult to dub them ‘anti-Semitic’ although in their desperation they do try.  CHAPTER THREE

 The Pushbacker sting

Until you realize how easy it is for your mind to be manipulated, you  remain the puppet of someone else’s game  Evita Ochel



Iwill use the presidencies of Trump and Biden to show how the  manipulation of the one-party state plays out behind the illusion of political choice across the world. No two presidencies could – on the face of it – be more diﬀerent and apparently at odds in terms of direction and policy.  A Renegade Mind sees beyond the obvious and focuses on outcomes and consequences and not image, words and waﬄe. The Cult embarked on a campaign to divide America between those who blindly support its agenda (the mentality known as ‘Woke’) and those who are pushing back on where the Cult and its Sabbatians want to go. This presents inﬁnite possibilities for dividing and ruling the population by se ing them at war with each other and allows a perceptual ring fence of demonisation to encircle the Pushbackers in a modern version of the Li le Big Horn in 1876 when American cavalry led by Lieutenant Colonel George Custer were drawn into a trap, surrounded and killed by Native American tribes defending their land of thousands of years from being seized by the government. In this modern version the roles are reversed and it’s those defending themselves from the Sabbatian government who are surrounded and the government that’s seeking to destroy them. This trap was set years ago and to explain how we must return to 2016 and the emergence of Donald Trump as a candidate to be President of the United States. He set out to overcome the best part of 20 other candidates in the Republican Party before and during the primaries and was not considered by many in those early stages to have a prayer of living in the White House. The Republican Party was said to have great reservations about Trump and yet somehow he won the nomination. When you know how American politics works – politics in general – there is no way that Trump could have become the party’s candidate unless the Sabbatian-controlled ‘Neocons’ that run the Republican Party wanted that to happen. We saw the proof in emails and documents made public by WikiLeaks that the Democratic Party hierarchy, or Democons, systematically undermined the campaign of Bernie Sanders to make sure that Sabbatian gofer Hillary Clinton won the nomination to be their presidential candidate. If the Democons could do that then the Neocons in the Republican Party could have derailed Trump in the same way. But they didn’t and at that stage I began to conclude that Trump could well be the one chosen to be president. If that was the case the ‘why’ was pre y clear to see – the goal of dividing America between Cult agenda-supporting Wokers and Pushbackers who gravitated to Trump because he was telling them what they wanted to hear. His constituency of support had been increasingly ignored and voiceless for decades and profoundly through the eight years of Sabbatian puppet Barack Obama. Now here was someone speaking their language of pulling back from the incessant globalisation of political and economic power, the exporting of American jobs to China and elsewhere by ‘American’ (Sabbatian) corporations, the deletion of free speech, and the mass immigration policies that had further devastated job opportunities for the urban working class of all races and the once American heartlands of the Midwest.

Beware the forked tongue Those people collectively sighed with relief that at last a political leader was apparently on their side, but another trait of the Renegade Mind is that you look even harder at people telling you what you want to hear than those who are telling you otherwise. Obviously as I said earlier people wish what they want to hear to be true and genuine and they are much more likely to believe that than someone saying what they don’t want to here and don’t want to be true. Sales people are taught to be skilled in eliciting by calculated questioning what their customers want to hear and repeating that back to them as their own opinion to get their targets to like and trust them. Assets of the Cult are also sales people in the sense of selling perception. To read Cult manipulation you have to play the long and expanded game and not fall for the Vaudeville show of party politics. Both American parties are vehicles for the Cult and they exploit them in diﬀerent ways depending on what the agenda requires at that moment. Trump and the Republicans were used to be the focus of dividing America and isolating Pushbackers to open the way for a Biden presidency to become the most extreme in American history by advancing the full-blown Woke (Cult) agenda with the aim of destroying and silencing Pushbackers now labelled Nazi Trump supporters and white supremacists.  Sabbatians wanted Trump in oﬃce for the reasons described by ultra-Zionist Saul Alinsky (1909-1972) who was promoting the Woke philosophy through ‘community organising’ long before anyone had heard of it. In those days it still went by its traditional name of Marxism. The reason for the manipulated Trump phenomenon was laid out in Alinsky’s 1971 book, Rules for Radicals, which was his blueprint for overthrowing democratic and other regimes and replacing them with Sabbatian Marxism. Not surprisingly his to-do list was evident in the Sabbatian French and Russian ‘Revolutions’ and that in China which will become very relevant in the next chapter about the ‘Covid’ hoax. Among Alinsky’s followers have been the deeply corrupt Barack Obama, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Hillary Clinton who described him as a ‘hero’. All three are Sabbatian stooges with Pelosi personifying the arrogant corrupt idiocy that so widely fronts up for the Cult inner core. Predictably as a Sabbatian advocate of the ‘light-bringer’ Alinsky features Lucifer on the dedication page of his book as the original radical who gained his own kingdom (‘Earth’ as we shall see). One of Alinsky’s golden radical rules was to pick an individual and focus all a ention, hatred and blame on them and not to target faceless bureaucracies and corporations. Rules for Radicals is really a Sabbatian handbook with its contents repeatedly employed all over the world for centuries and why wouldn’t Sabbatians bring to power their designer-villain to be used as the individual on which all a ention, hatred and blame was bestowed? This is what they did and the only question for me is how much Trump knew that and how much he was manipulated. A bit of both, I suspect. This was Alinsky’s Trump technique from a man who died in 1972. The technique has spanned history:

Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, polarize it. Don’t try to attack abstract corporations or bureaucracies. Identify a responsible individual. Ignore attempts to shift or spread the blame.


From the moment Trump came to illusory power everything was about him. It wasn’t about Republican policy or opinion, but all about Trump. Everything he did was presented in negative, derogatory and abusive terms by the Sabbatian-dominated media led by Cult operations such as CNN, MSNBC, The New York Times and the Jeﬀ Bezos-owned Washington Post – ‘Pick the target, freeze it, personalize it, polarize it.’ Trump was turned into a demon to be viliﬁed by those who hated him and a demi-god loved by those who worshipped him. This, in turn, had his supporters, too, presented as equally demonic in preparation for the punchline later down the line when Biden was about to take oﬃce. It was here’s a Trump, there’s a Trump, everywhere a Trump, Trump. Virtually every news story or happening was ﬁltered through the lens of ‘The Donald’. You loved him or hated him and which one you chose was said to deﬁne you as Satan’s spawn or a paragon of virtue. Even supporting some Trump policies or statements and not others was enough for an assault on your character. No shades of grey were or are allowed. Everything is black and white (literally and ﬁguratively). A Californian I knew had her head u erly scrambled by her hatred for Trump while telling people they should love each other. She was so totally consumed by Trump Derangement Syndrome as it became to be known that this glaring contradiction would never have occurred to her. By deﬁnition anyone who criticised Trump or praised his opponents was a hero and this lady described Joe Biden as ‘a kind, honest gentleman’ when he’s a provable liar, mega-crook and vicious piece of work to boot. Sabbatians had indeed divided America using Trump as the fall-guy and all along the clock was ticking on the consequences for his supporters.

In hock to his masters Trump gave Sabbatians via Israel almost everything they wanted in his four years. Ask and you shall receive was the dynamic between himself and Benjamin Netanyahu orchestrated by Trump’s ultra- Zionist son-in-law Jared Kushner, his ultra-Zionist Ambassador to Israel, David Friedman, and ultra-Zionist ‘Israel adviser’, Jason Greenbla . The last two were central to the running and protecting from collapse of his business empire, the Trump Organisation, and colossal business failures made him forever beholding to Sabbatian networks that bailed him out. By the start of the 1990s Trump owed $4 billion to banks that he couldn’t pay and almost $1billion of that was down to him personally and not his companies. This mega- disaster was the result of building two new casinos in Atlantic City and buying the enormous Taj Mahal operation which led to crippling debt payments. He had borrowed fantastic sums from 72 banks with major Sabbatian connections and although the scale of debt should have had him living in a tent alongside the highway they never foreclosed. A plan was devised to li Trump from the mire by BT Securities Corporation and Rothschild Inc. and the case was handled by Wilber Ross who had worked for the Rothschilds for 27 years. Ross would be named US Commerce Secretary a er Trump’s election. Another crucial ﬁgure in saving Trump was ultra- Zionist ‘investor’ Carl Icahn who bought the Taj Mahal casino. Icahn was made special economic adviser on ﬁnancial regulation in the Trump administration. He didn’t stay long but still managed to ﬁnd time to make a tidy sum of a reported $31.3 million when he sold his holdings aﬀected by the price of steel three days before Trump imposed a 235 percent tariﬀ on steel imports. What amazing bits of luck these people have. Trump and Sabbatian operatives have long had a close association and his mentor and legal adviser from the early 1970s until 1986 was the dark and genetically corrupt ultra- Zionist Roy Cohn who was chief counsel to Senator Joseph McCarthy’s ‘communist’ witch-hunt in the 1950s. Esquire magazine published an article about Cohn with the headline ‘Don’t mess with Roy Cohn’. He was described as the most feared lawyer in New York and ‘a ruthless master of dirty tricks ... [with] ... more than one Maﬁa Don on speed dial’. Cohn’s inﬂuence, contacts, support and protection made Trump a front man for Sabbatians in New York with their connections to one of Cohn’s many criminal employers, the ‘Russian’ Sabbatian Maﬁa. Israel-centric media mogul Rupert Murdoch was introduced to Trump by Cohn and they started a long friendship. Cohn died in 1986 weeks a er being disbarred for unethical conduct by the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court. The wheels of justice do indeed run slow given the length of Cohn’s crooked career.

QAnon-sense We are asked to believe that Donald Trump with his fundamental connections to Sabbatian networks and operatives has been leading the ﬁght to stop the Sabbatian agenda for the fascistic control of America and the world. Sure he has. A man entrapped during his years in the White House by Sabbatian operatives and whose biggest ﬁnancial donor was casino billionaire Sheldon Adelson who was Sabbatian to his DNA?? Oh, do come on. Trump has been used to divide America and isolate Pushbackers on the Cult agenda under the heading of ‘Trump supporters’, ‘insurrectionists’ and ‘white supremacists’. The US Intelligence/Mossad Psyop or psychological operation known as QAnon emerged during the Trump years as a central pillar in the Sabbatian campaign to lead Pushbackers into the trap set by those that wished to destroy them. I knew from the start that QAnon was a scam because I had seen the same scenario many times before over 30 years under diﬀerent names and I had wri en about one in particular in the books. ‘Not again’ was my reaction when QAnon came to the fore. The same script is pulled out every few years and a new name added to the le erhead. The story always takes the same form: ‘Insiders’ or ‘the good guys’ in the government- intelligence-military ‘Deep State’ apparatus were going to instigate mass arrests of the ‘bad guys’ which would include the Rockefellers, Rothschilds, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, George Soros, etc., etc. Dates are given for when the ‘good guys’ are going to move in, but the dates pass without incident and new dates are given which pass without incident. The central message to Pushbackers in each case is that they don’t have to do anything because there is ‘a plan’ and it is all going to be sorted by the ‘good guys’ on the inside. ‘Trust the plan’ was a QAnon mantra when the only plan was to misdirect Pushbackers into pu ing their trust in a Psyop they believed to be real. Beware, beware, those who tell you what you want to hear and always check it out. Right up to Biden’s inauguration QAnon was still claiming that ‘the Storm’ was coming and Trump would stay on as president when Biden and his cronies were arrested and jailed. It was never going to happen and of course it didn’t, but what did happen as a result provided that punchline to the Sabbatian Trump/QAnon Psyop.  On January 6th, 2021, a very big crowd of Trump supporters gathered in the National Mall in Washington DC down from the Capitol Building to protest at what they believed to be widespread corruption and vote fraud that stopped Trump being re-elected for a second term as president in November, 2020. I say as someone that does not support Trump or Biden that the evidence is clear that major vote-ﬁxing went on to favour Biden, a man with cognitive problems so advanced he can o en hardly string a sentence together without reading the words wri en for him on the Teleprompter. Glaring ballot discrepancies included serious questions about electronic voting machines that make vote rigging a comparative cinch and hundreds of thousands of paper votes that suddenly appeared during already advanced vote counts and virtually all of them for Biden. Early Trump leads in crucial swing states suddenly began to close and disappear. The pandemic hoax was used as the excuse to issue almost limitless numbers of mail-in ballots with no checks to establish that the recipients were still alive or lived at that address. They were sent to streams of people who had not even asked for them. Private organisations were employed to gather these ballots and who knows what they did with them before they turned up at the counts. The American election system has been manipulated over decades to become a sick joke with more holes than a Swiss cheese for the express purpose of dictating the results. Then there was the criminal manipulation of information by Sabbatian tech giants like Facebook, Twi er and Google-owned YouTube which deleted pro-Trump, anti-Biden accounts and posts while everything in support of Biden was le alone. Sabbatians wanted Biden to win because a er the dividing of America it was time for full-on Woke and every aspect of the Cult agenda to be unleashed.

Hunter gatherer Extreme Silicon Valley bias included blocking information by the New York Post exposing a Biden scandal that should have ended his bid for president in the ﬁnal weeks of the campaign. Hunter Biden, his monumentally corrupt son, is reported to have sent a laptop to be repaired at a local store and failed to return for it. Time passed until the laptop became the property of the store for non-payment of the bill. When the owner saw what was on the hard drive he gave a copy to the FBI who did nothing even though it conﬁrmed widespread corruption in which the Joe Biden family were using his political position, especially when he was vice president to Obama, to make multiple millions in countries around the world and most notably Ukraine and China. Hunter Biden’s one-time business partner Tony Bobulinski went public when the story broke in the New York Post to conﬁrm the corruption he saw and that Joe Biden not only knew what was going on he also proﬁted from the spoils. Millions were handed over by a Chinese company with close connections – like all major businesses in China – to the Chinese communist party of President Xi Jinping. Joe Biden even boasted at a meeting of the Cult’s World Economic Forum that as vice president he had ordered the government of Ukraine to ﬁre a prosecutor. What he didn’t mention was that the same man just happened to be investigating an energy company which was part of Hunter Biden’s corrupt portfolio. The company was paying him big bucks for no other reason than the inﬂuence his father had. Overnight Biden’s presidential campaign should have been over given that he had lied publicly about not knowing what his son was doing. Instead almost the entire Sabbatian-owned mainstream media and Sabbatian- owned Silicon Valley suppressed circulation of the story. This alone went a mighty way to rigging the election of 2020. Cult assets like Mark Zuckerberg at Facebook also spent hundreds of millions to be used in support of Biden and vote ‘administration’.  The Cult had used Trump as the focus to divide America and was now desperate to bring in moronic, pliable, corrupt Biden to complete the double-whammy. No way were they going to let li le things like the will of the people thwart their plan. Silicon Valley widely censored claims that the election was rigged because it was rigged. For the same reason anyone claiming it was rigged was denounced as a ‘white supremacist’ including the pathetically few Republican politicians willing to say so. Right across the media where the claim was mentioned it was described as a ‘false claim’ even though these excuses for ‘journalists’ would have done no research into the subject whatsoever. Trump won seven million more votes than any si ing president had ever achieved while somehow a cognitively-challenged soon to be 78-year-old who was hidden away from the public for most of the campaign managed to win more votes than any presidential candidate in history. It makes no sense. You only had to see election rallies for both candidates to witness the enthusiasm for Trump and the apathy for Biden. Tens of thousands would a end Trump events while Biden was speaking in empty car parks with o en only television crews a ending and framing their shots to hide the fact that no one was there. It was pathetic to see footage come to light of Biden standing at a podium making speeches only to TV crews and party ﬁxers while reading the words wri en for him on massive Teleprompter screens. So, yes, those protestors on January 6th had a point about election rigging, but some were about to walk into a trap laid for them in Washington by the Cult Deep State and its QAnon Psyop. This was the Capitol Hill riot ludicrously dubbed an ‘insurrection’.

The spider and the fly Renegade Minds know there are not two ‘sides’ in politics, only one side, the Cult, working through all ‘sides’. It’s a stage show, a puppet show, to direct the perceptions of the population into focusing on diversions like parties and candidates while missing the puppeteers with their hands holding all the strings. The Capitol Hill ‘insurrection’ brings us back to the Li le Big Horn. Having created two distinct opposing groupings – Woke and Pushbackers – the trap was about to be sprung. Pushbackers were to be encircled and isolated by associating them all in the public mind with Trump and then labelling Trump as some sort of Confederate leader. I knew immediately that the Capitol riot was a set-up because of two things. One was how easy the rioters got into the building with virtually no credible resistance and secondly I could see – as with the ‘Covid’ hoax in the West at the start of 2020 – how the Cult could exploit the situation to move its agenda forward with great speed. My experience of Cult techniques and activities over more than 30 years has showed me that while they do exploit situations they haven’t themselves created this never happens with events of fundamental agenda signiﬁcance. Every time major events giving cultists the excuse to rapidly advance their plan you ﬁnd they are manipulated into being for the speciﬁc reason of providing that excuse – Problem- Reaction-Solution. Only a tiny minority of the huge crowd of Washington protestors sought to gain entry to the Capitol by smashing windows and breaching doors. That didn’t ma er. The whole crowd and all Pushbackers, even if they did not support Trump, were going to be lumped together as dangerous insurrectionists and conspiracy theorists. The la er term came into widespread use through a CIA memo in the 1960s aimed at discrediting those questioning the nonsensical oﬃcial story of the Kennedy assassination and it subsequently became widely employed by the media. It’s still being used by inept ‘journalists’ with no idea of its origin to discredit anyone questioning anything that authority claims to be true. When you are perpetrating a conspiracy you need to discredit the very word itself even though the dictionary deﬁnition of conspiracy is merely ‘the activity of secretly planning with other people to do something bad or illegal‘ and ‘a general agreement to keep silent about a subject for the purpose of keeping it secret’. On that basis there are conspiracies almost wherever you look. For obvious reasons the Cult and its lapdog media have to claim there are no conspiracies even though the word appears in state laws as with conspiracy to defraud, to murder, and to corrupt public morals. Agent provocateurs are widely used by the Cult Deep State to manipulate genuine people into acting in ways that suit the desired outcome. By genuine in this case I mean protestors genuinely supporting Trump and claims that the election was stolen. In among them, however, were agents of the state wearing the garb of Trump supporters and QAnon to pump-prime the Capital riot which some genuine Trump supporters naively fell for. I described the situation as ‘Come into my parlour said the spider to the ﬂy’. Leaﬂets appeared through the Woke paramilitary arm Antifa, the anti-fascist fascists, calling on supporters to turn up in Washington looking like Trump supporters even though they hated him. Some of those arrested for breaching the Capitol Building were sourced to Antifa and its stable mate Black Lives Ma er. Both organisations are funded by Cult billionaires and corporations. One man charged for the riot was according to his lawyer a former FBI agent who had held top secret security clearance for 40 years. A orney Thomas Plofchan said of his client, 66-year-old Thomas Edward Caldwell:

He has held a Top Secret Security Clearance since 1979 and has undergone multiple Special Background Investigations in support of his clearances. After retiring from the Navy, he worked as a section chief for the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 2009-2010 as a GS-12 [mid-level employee].

He also formed and operated a consulting firm performing work, often classified, for U.S government customers including the US. Drug Enforcement Agency, Department of Housing and Urban Development, the US Coast Guard, and the US Army Personnel Command.


 A judge later released Caldwell pending trial in the absence of evidence about a conspiracy or that he tried to force his way into the building. The New York Post reported a ‘law enforcement source‘ as saying that ‘at least two known Antifa members were spo ed’ on camera among Trump supporters during the riot while one of the rioters arrested was John Earle Sullivan, a seriously extreme Black Lives Ma er Trump-hater from Utah who was previously arrested and charged in July, 2020, over a BLM-Antifa riot in which drivers were threatened and one was shot. Sullivan is the founder of Utah- based Insurgence USA which is an aﬃliate of the Cult-created-and- funded Black Lives Ma er movement. Footage appeared and was then deleted by Twi er of Trump supporters calling out Antifa inﬁltrators and a group was ﬁlmed changing into pro-Trump clothing before the riot. Security at the building was pathetic – as planned. Colonel Leroy Fletcher Prouty, a man with long experience in covert operations working with the US security apparatus, once described the tell-tale sign to identify who is involved in an assassination. He said:

No one has to direct an assassination – it happens. The active role is played secretly by permitting it to happen. This is the greatest single clue. Who has the power to call off or reduce the usual security precautions?


This principle applies to many other situations and certainly to the Capitol riot of January 6th, 2021.

The sting With such a big and potentially angry crowd known to be gathering near the Capitol the security apparatus would have had a major police detail to defend the building with National Guard troops on standby given the strength of feeling among people arriving from all over America encouraged by the QAnon Psyop and statements by Donald Trump. Instead Capitol Police ‘security’ was ﬂimsy, weak, and easily breached. The same number of oﬃcers was deployed as on a regular day and that is a blatant red ﬂag. They were not staﬀed or equipped for a possible riot that had been an obvious possibility in the circumstances. No protective and eﬀective fencing worth the name was put in place and there were no contingency plans. The whole thing was basically a case of standing aside and waving people in. Once inside police mostly backed oﬀ apart from one Capitol police oﬃcer who ridiculously shot dead unarmed Air Force veteran protestor Ashli Babbi without a warning as she climbed through a broken window. The ‘investigation’ refused to name or charge the oﬃcer a er what must surely be considered a murder in the circumstances. They just li ed a carpet and swept. The story was endlessly repeated about ﬁve people dying in the ‘armed insurrection’ when there was no report of rioters using weapons. Apart from Babbi the other four died from a heart a ack, strokes and apparently a drug overdose. Capitol police oﬃcer Brian Sicknick was reported to have died a er being bludgeoned with a ﬁre extinguisher when he was alive a er the riot was over and died later of what the Washington Medical Examiner’s Oﬃce said was a stroke. Sicknick had no external injuries. The lies were delivered like rapid ﬁre. There was a narrative to build with incessant repetition of the lie until the lie became the accepted ‘everybody knows that’ truth. The ‘Big Lie’ technique of Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels is constantly used by the Cult which was behind the Nazis and is today behind the ‘Covid’ and ‘climate change’ hoaxes. Goebbels said:

If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it. The lie can be maintained only for such time as the State can shield the people from the political, economic and/or military consequences of the lie. It thus becomes vitally important for the State to use all of its powers to repress dissent, for the truth is the mortal enemy of the lie, and thus by extension, the truth is the greatest enemy of the State.  Most protestors had a free run of the Capitol Building. This allowed pictures to be taken of rioters in iconic parts of the building including the Senate chamber which could be used as propaganda images against all Pushbackers. One Congresswoman described the scene as ‘the worst kind of non-security anybody could ever imagine’. Well, the ﬁrst part was true, but someone obviously did imagine it and made sure it happened. Some photographs most widely circulated featured people wearing QAnon symbols and now the Psyop would be used to dub all QAnon followers with the ubiquitous ﬁt-all label of ‘white supremacist’ and ‘insurrectionists’. When a Muslim extremist called Noah Green drove his car at two police oﬃcers at the Capitol Building killing one in April, 2021, there was no such political and media hysteria. They were just disappointed he wasn’t white.

The witch-hunt Government prosecutor Michael Sherwin, an aggressive, dark-eyed, professional Ro weiler led the ‘investigation’ and to call it over the top would be to understate reality a thousand fold. Hundreds were tracked down and arrested for the crime of having the wrong political views and people were jailed who had done nothing more than walk in the building, commi ed no violence or damage to property, took a few pictures and le . They were labelled a ‘threat to the Republic’ while Biden sat in the White House signing executive orders wri en for him that were dismantling ‘the Republic’. Even when judges ruled that a mother and son should not be in jail the government kept them there. Some of those arrested have been badly beaten by prison guards in Washington and lawyers for one man said he suﬀered a fractured skull and was made blind in one eye. Meanwhile a woman is shot dead for no reason by a Capitol Police oﬃcer and we are not allowed to know who he is never mind what has happened to him although that will be nothing. The Cult’s QAnon/Trump sting to identify and isolate Pushbackers and then target them on the road to crushing and deleting them was a resounding success. You would have thought the Russians had invaded the building at gunpoint and lined up senators for a ﬁring squad to see the political and media reaction. Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is a child in a woman’s body, a terrible- twos, me, me, me, Woker narcissist of such proportions that words have no meaning. She said she thought she was going to die when ‘insurrectionists’ banged on her oﬃce door. It turned out she wasn’t even in the Capitol Building when the riot was happening and the ‘banging’ was a Capitol Police oﬃcer. She referred to herself as a ‘survivor’ which is an insult to all those true survivors of violent and sexual abuse while she lives her pampered and privileged life talking drivel for a living. Her Woke colleague and fellow mega- narcissist Rashida Tlaib broke down describing the devastating eﬀect on her, too, of not being in the building when the rioters were there. Ocasio-Cortez and Tlaib are members of a fully-Woke group of Congresswomen known as ‘The Squad’ along with Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley. The Squad from what I can see can be identiﬁed by its vehement anti-white racism, anti-white men agenda, and, as always in these cases, the absence of brain cells on active duty.  The usual suspects were on the riot case immediately in the form of Democrat ultra-Zionist senators and operatives Chuck Schumer and Adam Schiﬀ demanding that Trump be impeached for ‘his part in the insurrection’. The same pair of prats had led the failed impeachment of Trump over the invented ‘Russia collusion’ nonsense which claimed Russia had helped Trump win the 2016 election. I didn’t realise that Tel Aviv had been relocated just outside Moscow. I must ﬁnd an up-to-date map. The Russia hoax was a Sabbatian operation to keep Trump occupied and impotent and to stop any rapport with Russia which the Cult wants to retain as a perceptual enemy to be pulled out at will. Puppet Biden began a acking Russia when he came to oﬃce as the Cult seeks more upheaval, division and war across the world. A two-year stage show ‘Russia collusion inquiry’ headed by the not-very-bright former 9/11 FBI chief Robert Mueller, with support from 19 lawyers, 40 FBI agents plus intelligence analysts, forensic accountants and other staﬀ, devoured tens of millions of dollars and found no evidence of Russia collusion which a ten-year-old could have told them on day one. Now the same moronic Schumer and Schiﬀ wanted a second impeachment of Trump over the Capitol ‘insurrection’ (riot) which the arrested development of Schumer called another ‘Pearl Harbor’ while others compared it with 9/11 in which 3,000 died and, in the case of CNN, with the Rwandan genocide in the 1990s in which an estimated 500,000 to 600,000 were murdered, between 250, 000 and 500,000 women were raped, and populations of whole towns were hacked to death with machetes. To make those comparisons purely for Cult political reasons is beyond insulting to those that suﬀered and lost their lives and conﬁrms yet again the callous inhumanity that we are dealing with. Schumer is a monumental idiot and so is Schiﬀ, but they serve the Cult agenda and do whatever they’re told so they get looked a er. Talking of idiots – another inane man who spanned the Russia and Capitol impeachment a empts was Senator Eric Swalwell who had the nerve to accuse Trump of collusion with the Russians while sleeping with a Chinese spy called Christine Fang or ‘Fang Fang’ which is straight out of a Bond ﬁlm no doubt starring Klaus Schwab as the bloke living on a secret island and controlling laser weapons positioned in space and pointing at world capitals. Fang Fang plays the part of Bond’s inﬁltrator girlfriend which I’m sure she would enjoy rather more than sharing a bed with the brainless Swalwell, lying back and thinking of China. The FBI eventually warned Swalwell about Fang Fang which gave her time to escape back to the Chinese dictatorship. How very thoughtful of them. The second Trump impeachment also failed and hardly surprising when an impeachment is supposed to remove a si ing president and by the time it happened Trump was no longer president. These people are running your country America, well, oﬃcially anyway. Terrifying isn’t it?

Outcomes tell the story - always The outcome of all this – and it’s the outcome on which Renegade Minds focus, not the words – was that a vicious, hysterical and obviously pre-planned assault was launched on Pushbackers to censor, silence and discredit them and even targeted their right to earn a living. They have since been condemned as ‘domestic terrorists’ that need to be treated like Al-Qaeda and Islamic State. ‘Domestic terrorists’ is a label the Cult has been trying to make stick since the period of the Oklahoma bombing in 1995 which was blamed on ‘far-right domestic terrorists’. If you read The Trigger you will see that the bombing was clearly a Problem-Reaction-Solution carried out by the Deep State during a Bill Clinton administration so corrupt that no dictionary deﬁnition of the term would even nearly suﬃce. Nearly 30, 000 troops were deployed from all over America to the empty streets of Washington for Biden’s inauguration. Ten thousand of them stayed on with the pretext of protecting the capital from insurrectionists when it was more psychological programming to normalise the use of the military in domestic law enforcement in support of the Cult plan for a police-military state. Biden’s fascist administration began a purge of ‘wrong-thinkers’ in the military which means anyone that is not on board with Woke. The Capitol Building was surrounded by a fence with razor wire and the Land of the Free was further symbolically and literally dismantled. The circle was completed with the installation of Biden and the exploitation of the QAnon Psyop.  America had never been so divided since the civil war of the 19th century, Pushbackers were isolated and dubbed terrorists and now, as was always going to happen, the Cult immediately set about deleting what li le was le of freedom and transforming American society through a swish of the hand of the most controlled ‘president’ in American history leading (oﬃcially at least) the most extreme regime since the country was declared an independent state on July 4th, 1776. Biden issued undebated, dictatorial executive orders almost by the hour in his opening days in oﬃce across the whole spectrum of the Cult wish-list including diluting controls on the border with Mexico allowing thousands of migrants to illegally enter the United States to transform the demographics of America and import an election-changing number of perceived Democrat voters. Then there were Biden deportation amnesties for the already illegally resident (estimated to be as high as 20 or even 30 million). A bill before Congress awarded American citizenship to anyone who could prove they had worked in agriculture for just 180 days in the previous two years as ‘Big Ag’ secured its slave labour long-term. There were the plans to add new states to the union such as Puerto Rico and making Washington DC a state. They are all parts of a plan to ensure that the Cult-owned Woke Democrats would be permanently in power.

Border – what border? I have exposed in detail in other books how mass immigration into the United States and Europe is the work of Cult networks fuelled by the tens of billions spent to this and other ends by George Soros and his global Open Society (open borders) Foundations. The impact can be seen in America alone where the population has increased by 100 million in li le more than 30 years mostly through immigration. I wrote in The Answer that the plan was to have so many people crossing the southern border that the numbers become unstoppable and we are now there under Cult-owned Biden. El Salvador in Central America puts the scale of what is happening into context. A third of the population now lives in the United States, much of it illegally, and many more are on the way. The methodology is to crush Central and South American countries economically and spread violence through machete-wielding psychopathic gangs like MS-13 based in El Salvador and now operating in many American cities. Biden-imposed lax security at the southern border means that it is all but open. He said before his ‘election’ that he wanted to see a surge towards the border if he became president and that was the green light for people to do just that a er election day to create the human disaster that followed for both America and the migrants. When that surge came the imbecilic Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said it wasn’t a ‘surge’ because they are ‘children, not insurgents’ and the term ‘surge’ (used by Biden) was a claim of ‘white supremacists’. This disingenuous lady may one day enter the realm of the most basic intelligence, but it won’t be any time soon.  Sabbatians and the Cult are in the process of destroying America by importing violent people and gangs in among the genuine to terrorise American cities and by overwhelming services that cannot cope with the sheer volume of new arrivals. Something similar is happening in Europe as Western society in general is targeted for demographic and cultural transformation and upheaval. The plan demands violence and crime to create an environment of intimidation, fear and division and Soros has been funding the election of district a orneys across America who then stop prosecuting many crimes, reduce sentences for violent crimes and free as many violent criminals as they can. Sabbatians are creating the chaos from which order – their order – can respond in a classic Problem-Reaction-Solution. A Freemasonic moto says ‘Ordo Ab Chao’ (Order out of Chaos) and this is why the Cult is constantly creating chaos to impose a new ‘order’. Here you have the reason the Cult is constantly creating chaos. The ‘Covid’ hoax can be seen with those entering the United States by plane being forced to take a ‘Covid’ test while migrants ﬂooding through southern border processing facilities do not. Nothing is put in the way of mass migration and if that means ignoring the government’s own ‘Covid’ rules then so be it. They know it’s all bullshit anyway. Any pushback on this is denounced as ‘racist’ by Wokers and Sabbatian fronts like the ultra-Zionist Anti-Defamation League headed by the appalling Jonathan Greenbla which at the same time argues that Israel should not give citizenship and voting rights to more Palestinian Arabs or the ‘Jewish population’ (in truth the Sabbatian network) will lose control of the country.

Society-changing numbers Biden’s masters have declared that countries like El Salvador are so dangerous that their people must be allowed into the United States for humanitarian reasons when there are fewer murders in large parts of many Central American countries than in US cities like Baltimore. That is not to say Central America cannot be a dangerous place and Cult-controlled American governments have been making it so since way back, along with the dismantling of economies, in a long-term plan to drive people north into the United States. Parts of Central America are very dangerous, but in other areas the story is being greatly exaggerated to justify relaxing immigration criteria. Migrants are being oﬀered free healthcare and education in the United States as another incentive to head for the border and there is no requirement to be ﬁnancially independent before you can enter to prevent the resources of America being drained. You can’t blame migrants for seeking what they believe will be a be er life, but they are being played by the Cult for dark and nefarious ends. The numbers since Biden took oﬃce are huge. In February, 2021, more than 100,000 people were known to have tried to enter the US illegally through the southern border (it was 34,000 in the same month in 2020) and in March it was 170,000 – a 418 percent increase on March, 2020. These numbers are only known people, not the ones who get in unseen. The true ﬁgure for migrants illegally crossing the border in a single month was estimated by one congressman at 250,000 and that number will only rise under Biden’s current policy. Gangs of murdering drug-running thugs that control the Mexican side of the border demand money – thousands of dollars – to let migrants cross the Rio Grande into America. At the same time gun ba les are breaking out on the border several times a week between rival Mexican drug gangs (which now operate globally) who are equipped with sophisticated military-grade weapons, grenades and armoured vehicles. While the Capitol Building was being ‘protected’ from a non-existent ‘threat’ by thousands of troops, and others were still deployed at the time in the Cult Neocon war in Afghanistan, the southern border of America was le to its fate. This is not incompetence, it is cold calculation.  By March, 2021, there were 17,000 unaccompanied children held at border facilities and many of them are ensnared by people traﬃckers for paedophile rings and raped on their journey north to America. This is not conjecture – this is fact. Many of those designated children are in reality teenage boys or older. Meanwhile Wokers posture their self-purity for encouraging poor and tragic people to come to America and face this nightmare both on the journey and at the border with the disgusting ﬁgure of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi giving disingenuous speeches about caring for migrants. The woman’s evil. Wokers condemned Trump for having children in cages at the border (so did Obama, Shhhh), but now they are sleeping on the ﬂoor without access to a shower with one border facility 729 percent over capacity. The Biden insanity even proposed ﬂying migrants from the southern border to the northern border with Canada for ‘processing’. The whole shambles is being overseen by ultra-Zionist Secretary of Homeland Security, the moronic liar Alejandro Mayorkas, who banned news cameras at border facilities to stop Americans seeing what was happening. Mayorkas said there was not a ban on news crews; it was just that they were not allowed to ﬁlm. Alongside him at Homeland Security is another ultra-Zionist Cass Sunstein appointed by Biden to oversee new immigration laws. Sunstein despises conspiracy researchers to the point where he suggests they should be banned or taxed for having such views. The man is not bonkers or anything. He’s perfectly well-adjusted, but adjusted to what is the question. Criticise what is happening and you are a ‘white supremacist’ when earlier non-white immigrants also oppose the numbers which eﬀect their lives and opportunities. Black people in poor areas are particularly damaged by uncontrolled immigration and the increased competition for work opportunities with those who will work for less. They are also losing voting power as Hispanics become more dominant in former black areas. It’s a downward spiral for them while the billionaires behind the policy drone on about how much they care about black people and ‘racism’. None of this is about compassion for migrants or black people – that’s just wind and air. Migrants are instead being mercilessly exploited to transform America while the countries they leave are losing their future and the same is true in Europe. Mass immigration may now be the work of Woke Democrats, but it can be traced back to the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act (it wasn’t) signed into law by Republican hero President Ronald Reagan which gave amnesty to millions living in the United States illegally and other incentives for people to head for the southern border. Here we have the one-party state at work again.

Save me syndrome Almost every aspect of what I have been exposing as the Cult agenda was on display in even the ﬁrst days of ‘Biden’ with silencing of Pushbackers at the forefront of everything. A Renegade Mind will view the Trump years and QAnon in a very diﬀerent light to their supporters and advocates as the dots are connected. The QAnon/Trump Psyop has given the Cult all it was looking for. We may not know how much, or li le, that Trump realised he was being used, but that’s a side issue. This pincer movement produced the desired outcome of dividing America and having Pushbackers isolated. To turn this around we have to look at new routes to empowerment which do not include handing our power to other people and groups through what I will call the ‘Save Me Syndrome’ – ‘I want someone else to do it so that I don’t have to’. We have seen this at work throughout human history and the QAnon/Trump Psyop is only the latest incarnation alongside all the others. Religion is an obvious expression of this when people look to a ‘god’ or priest to save them or tell them how to be saved and then there are ‘save me’ politicians like Trump. Politics is a diversion and not a ‘saviour’. It is a means to block positive change, not make it possible.  Save Me Syndrome always comes with the same repeating theme of handing your power to whom or what you believe will save you while your real ‘saviour’ stares back from the mirror every morning. Renegade Minds are constantly vigilant in this regard and always asking the question ‘What can I do?’ rather than ‘What can someone else do for me?’ Gandhi was right when he said: ‘You must be the change you want to see in the world.’ We are indeed the people we have been waiting for. We are presented with a constant ra of reasons to concede that power to others and forget where the real power is. Humanity has the numbers and the Cult does not. It has to use diversion and division to target the unstoppable power that comes from unity. Religions, governments, politicians, corporations, media, QAnon, are all diﬀerent manifestations of this power- diversion and dilution. Refusing to give your power to governments and instead handing it to Trump and QAnon is not to take a new direction, but merely to recycle the old one with new names on the posters. I will explore this phenomenon as we proceed and how to break the cycles and recycles that got us here through the mists of repeating perception and so repeating history. For now we shall turn to the most potent example in the entire human story of the consequences that follow when you give your power away. I am talking, of course, of the ‘Covid’ hoax.  CHAPTER FOUR

‘Covid’: Calculated catastrophe

 Facts are threatening to those invested in fraud DaShanne Stokes



W e can easily unravel the real reason for the ‘Covid pandemic’ hoax by employing the Renegade Mind methodology that I have outlined this far. We’ll start by comparing the long-planned Cult outcome with the ‘Covid pandemic’ outcome. Know the outcome and you’ll see the journey.  I have highlighted the plan for the Hunger Games Society which has been in my books for so many years with the very few controlling the very many through ongoing dependency. To create this dependency it is essential to destroy independent livelihoods, businesses and employment to make the population reliant on the state (the Cult) for even the basics of life through a guaranteed pi ance income. While independence of income remained these Cult ambitions would be thwarted. With this knowledge it was easy to see where the ‘pandemic’ hoax was going once talk of ‘lockdowns’ began and the closing of all but perceived ‘essential’ businesses to ‘save’ us from an alleged ‘deadly virus’. Cult corporations like Amazon and Walmart were naturally considered ‘essential’ while mom and pop shops and stores had their doors closed by fascist decree. As a result with every new lockdown and new regulation more small and medium, even large businesses not owned by the Cult, went to the wall while Cult giants and their frontmen and women grew ﬁnancially fa er by the second. Mom and pop were denied an income and the right to earn a living and the wealth of people like Jeﬀ Bezos (Amazon), Mark Zuckerberg (Facebook) and Sergei Brin and Larry Page (Google/Alphabet) have reached record levels. The Cult was increasing its own power through further dramatic concentrations of wealth while the competition was being destroyed and brought into a state of dependency. Lockdowns have been instigated to secure that very end and were never anything to do with health. My brother Paul spent 45 years building up a bus repair business, but lockdowns meant buses were running at a fraction of normal levels for months on end. Similar stories can told in their hundreds of millions worldwide. Eﬀorts of a lifetime coldly destroyed by Cult multi-billionaires and their lackeys in government and law enforcement who continued to earn their living from the taxation of the people while denying the right of the same people to earn theirs. How diﬀerent it would have been if those making and enforcing these decisions had to face the same ﬁnancial hardships of those they aﬀected, but they never do.

Gates of Hell Behind it all in the full knowledge of what he is doing and why is the psychopathic ﬁgure of Cult operative Bill Gates. His puppet Tedros at the World Health Organization declared ‘Covid’ a pandemic in March, 2020. The WHO had changed the deﬁnition of a ‘pandemic’ in 2009 just a month before declaring the ‘swine ﬂu pandemic’ which would not have been so under the previous deﬁnition. The same applies to ‘Covid’. The deﬁnition had included… ‘an infection by an infectious agent, occurring simultaneously in diﬀerent countries, with a signiﬁcant mortality rate relative to the proportion of the population infected’. The new deﬁnition removed the need for ‘signiﬁcant mortality’. The ‘pandemic’ has been fraudulent even down to the deﬁnition, but Gates demanded economy-destroying lockdowns, school closures, social distancing, mandatory masks, a ‘vaccination’ for every man, woman and child on the planet and severe consequences and restrictions for those that refused. Who gave him this power? The Cult did which he serves like a li le boy in short trousers doing what his daddy tells him. He and his psychopathic missus even smiled when they said that much worse was to come (what they knew was planned to come). Gates responded in the ma er-of-fact way of all psychopaths to a question about the eﬀect on the world economy of what he was doing:

Well, it won’t go to zero but it will shrink. Global GDP is probably going to take the biggest hit ever [Gates was smiling as he said this] … in my lifetime this will be the greatest economic hit. But you don’t have a choice. People act as if you have a choice. People don’t feel like going to the stadium when they might get infected … People are deeply affected by seeing these stats, by knowing they could be part of the transmission chain, old people, their parents and grandparents, could be affected by this, and so you don’t get to say ignore what is going on here.

There will be the ability to open up, particularly in rich countries, if things are done well over the next few months, but for the world at large normalcy only returns when we have largely vaccinated the entire population.


 The man has no compassion or empathy. How could he when he’s a psychopath like all Cult players? My own view is that even beyond that he is very seriously mentally ill. Look in his eyes and you can see this along with his crazy ﬂailing arms. You don’t do what he has done to the world population since the start of 2020 unless you are mentally ill and at the most extreme end of psychopathic. You especially don’t do it when to you know, as we shall see, that cases and deaths from ‘Covid’ are fakery and a product of monumental ﬁgure massaging. ‘These stats’ that Gates referred to are based on a ‘test’ that’s not testing for the ‘virus’ as he has known all along. He made his fortune with big Cult support as an infamously ruthless so ware salesman and now buys global control of ‘health’ (death) policy without the population he aﬀects having any say. It’s a breathtaking outrage. Gates talked about people being deeply aﬀected by fear of ‘Covid’ when that was because of him and his global network lying to them minute-by-minute supported by a lying media that he seriously inﬂuences and funds to the tune of hundreds of millions. He’s handed big sums to media operations including the BBC, NBC, Al Jazeera, Univision, PBS NewsHour, ProPublica, National Journal, The Guardian, The Financial Times, The Atlantic, Texas Tribune, USA Today publisher Ganne , Washington Monthly, Le Monde, Center for Investigative Reporting, Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting, National Press Foundation, International Center for Journalists, Solutions Journalism Network, the Poynter Institute for Media Studies, and many more. Gates is everywhere in the ‘Covid’ hoax and the man must go to prison – or a mental facility – for the rest of his life and his money distributed to those he has taken such enormous psychopathic pleasure in crushing.

The Muscle The Hunger Games global structure demands a police-military state – a fusion of the two into one force – which viciously imposes the will of the Cult on the population and protects the Cult from public rebellion. In that regard, too, the ‘Covid’ hoax just keeps on giving. O en unlawful, ridiculous and contradictory ‘Covid’ rules and regulations have been policed across the world by moronic automatons and psychopaths made faceless by face-nappy masks and acting like the Nazi SS and fascist blackshirts and brownshirts of Hitler and Mussolini. The smallest departure from the rules decreed by the psychos in government and their clueless gofers were jumped upon by the face-nappy fascists. Brutality against public protestors soon became commonplace even on girls, women and old people as the brave men with the batons – the Face-Nappies as I call them – broke up peaceful protests and handed out ﬁnes like confe i to people who couldn’t earn a living let alone pay hundreds of pounds for what was once an accepted human right. Robot Face-Nappies of No ingham police in the English East Midlands ﬁned one group £11,000 for a ending a child’s birthday party. For decades I charted the transformation of law enforcement as genuine, decent oﬃcers were replaced with psychopaths and the brain dead who would happily and brutally do whatever their masters told them. Now they were let loose on the public and I would emphasise the point that none of this just happened. The step-by-step change in the dynamic between police and public was orchestrated from the shadows by those who knew where this was all going and the same with the perceptual reframing of those in all levels of authority and oﬃcial administration through ‘training courses’ by organisations such as Common Purpose which was created in the late 1980s and given a massive boost in Blair era Britain until it became a global phenomenon. Supposed public ‘servants’ began to view the population as the enemy and the same was true of the police. This was the start of the explosion of behaviour manipulation organisations and networks preparing for the all-war on the human psyche unleashed with the dawn of 2020. I will go into more detail about this later in the book because it is a core part of what is happening. Police desecrated beauty spots to deter people gathering and arrested women for walking in the countryside alone ‘too far’ from their homes. We had arrogant, clueless sergeants in the Isle of Wight police where I live posting on Facebook what they insisted the population must do or else. A schoolmaster sergeant called Radford looked young enough for me to ask if his mother knew he was out, but he was posting what he expected people to do while a Sergeant Wilkinson boasted about ﬁning lads for meeting in a McDonald’s car park where they went to get a lockdown takeaway. Wilkinson added that he had even cancelled their order. What a pair of prats these people are and yet they have increasingly become the norm among Jackboot Johnson’s Yellowshirts once known as the British police. This was the theme all over the world with police savagery common during lockdown protests in the United States, the Netherlands, and the fascist state of Victoria in Australia under its tyrannical and again moronic premier Daniel Andrews. Amazing how tyrannical and moronic tend to work as a team and the same combination could be seen across America as arrogant, narcissistic Woke governors and mayors such as Gavin Newsom (California), Andrew Cuomo (New York), Gretchen Whitmer (Michigan), Lori Lightfoot (Chicago) and Eric Garce i (Los Angeles) did their Nazi and Stalin impressions with the full support of the compliant brutality of their enforcers in uniform as they arrested small business owners defying fascist shutdown orders and took them to jail in ankle shackles and handcuﬀs. This happened to bistro owner Marlena Pavlos-Hackney in Gretchen Whitmer’s fascist state of Michigan when police arrived to enforce an order by a state-owned judge for ‘pu ing the community at risk’ at a time when other states like Texas were dropping restrictions and migrants were pouring across the southern border without any ‘Covid’ questions at all. I’m sure there are many oﬃcers appalled by what they are ordered to do, but not nearly enough of them. If they were truly appalled they would not do it. As the months passed every opportunity was taken to have the military involved to make their presence on the streets ever more familiar and ‘normal’ for the longer-term goal of police-military fusion.  Another crucial element to the Hunger Games enforcement network has been encouraging the public to report neighbours and others for ‘breaking the lockdown rules’. The group faced with £11,000 in ﬁnes at the child’s birthday party would have been dobbed-in by a neighbour with a brain the size of a pea. The technique was most famously employed by the Stasi secret police in communist East Germany who had public informants placed throughout the population. A police chief in the UK says his force doesn’t need to carry out ‘Covid’ patrols when they are ﬂooded with so many calls from the public reporting other people for visiting the beach. Dorset police chief James Vaughan said people were so enthusiastic about snitching on their fellow humans they were now operating as an auxiliary arm of the police: ‘We are still ge ing around 400 reports a week from the public, so we will respond to reports …We won’t need to be doing hotspot patrols because people are very quick to pick the phone up and tell us.’ Vaughan didn’t say that this is a pillar of all tyrannies of whatever complexion and the means to hugely extend the reach of enforcement while spreading distrust among the people and making them wary of doing anything that might get them reported. Those narcissistic Isle of Wight sergeants Radford and Wilkinson never fail to add a link to their Facebook posts where the public can inform on their fellow slaves. Neither would be self-aware enough to realise they were imitating the Stasi which they might well never have heard of. Government psychologists that I will expose later laid out a policy to turn communities against each other in the same way.

A coincidence? Yep, and I can knit fog I knew from the start of the alleged pandemic that this was a Cult operation. It presented limitless potential to rapidly advance the Cult agenda and exploit manipulated fear to demand that every man, woman and child on the planet was ‘vaccinated’ in a process never used on humans before which infuses self-replicating synthetic material into human cells. Remember the plan to transform the human body from a biological to a synthetic biological state. I’ll deal with the ‘vaccine’ (that’s not actually a vaccine) when I focus on the genetic agenda. Enough to say here that mass global ‘vaccination’ justiﬁed by this ‘new virus’ set alarms ringing a er 30 years of tracking these people and their methods. The ‘Covid’ hoax oﬃcially beginning in China was also a big red ﬂag for reasons I will be explaining. The agenda potential was so enormous that I could dismiss any idea that the ‘virus’ appeared naturally. Major happenings with major agenda implications never occur without Cult involvement in making them happen. My questions were twofold in early 2020 as the media began its campaign to induce global fear and hysteria: Was this alleged infectious agent released on purpose by the Cult or did it even exist at all? I then did what I always do in these situations. I sat, observed and waited to see where the evidence and information would take me. By March and early April synchronicity was strongly – and ever more so since then – pointing me in the direction of there is no ‘virus’. I went public on that with derision even from swathes of the alternative media that voiced a scenario that the Chinese government released the ‘virus’ in league with Deep State elements in the United States from a top- level bio-lab in Wuhan where the ‘virus’ is said to have ﬁrst appeared. I looked at that possibility, but I didn’t buy it for several reasons. Deaths from the ‘virus’ did not in any way match what they would have been with a ‘deadly bioweapon’ and it is much more eﬀective if you sell the illusion of an infectious agent rather than having a real one unless you can control through injection who has it and who doesn’t. Otherwise you lose control of events. A made-up ‘virus’ gives you a blank sheet of paper on which you can make it do whatever you like and have any symptoms or mutant ‘variants’ you choose to add while a real infectious agent would limit you to what it actually does. A phantom disease allows you to have endless ludicrous ‘studies’ on the ‘Covid’ dollar to widen the perceived impact by inventing ever more ‘at risk’ groups including one study which said those who walk slowly may be almost four times more likely to die from the ‘virus’. People are in psychiatric wards for less.  A real ‘deadly bioweapon’ can take out people in the hierarchy that are not part of the Cult, but essential to its operation. Obviously they don’t want that. Releasing a real disease means you immediately lose control of it. Releasing an illusory one means you don’t. Again it’s vital that people are extra careful when dealing with what they want to hear. A bioweapon unleashed from a Chinese laboratory in collusion with the American Deep State may ﬁt a conspiracy narrative, but is it true? Would it not be far more eﬀective to use the excuse of a ‘virus’ to justify the real bioweapon – the ‘vaccine’? That way your disease agent does not have to be transmi ed and arrives directly through a syringe. I saw a French virologist Luc Montagnier quoted in the alternative media as saying he had discovered that the alleged ‘new’ severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus , or SARS-CoV-2, was made artiﬁcially and included elements of the human immunodeﬁciency ‘virus’ (HIV) and a parasite that causes malaria. SARS-CoV-2 is alleged to trigger an alleged illness called Covid-19. I remembered Montagnier’s name from my research years before into claims that an HIV ‘retrovirus’ causes AIDs – claims that were demolished by Berkeley virologist Peter Duesberg who showed that no one had ever proved that HIV causes acquired immunodeﬁciency syndrome or AIDS. Claims that become accepted as fact, publicly and medically, with no proof whatsoever are an ever-recurring story that profoundly applies to ‘Covid’. Nevertheless, despite the lack of proof, Montagnier’s team at the Pasteur Institute in Paris had a long dispute with American researcher Robert Gallo over which of them discovered and isolated the HIV ‘virus’ and with no evidence found it to cause AIDS. You will see later that there is also no evidence that any ‘virus’ causes any disease or that there is even such a thing as a ‘virus’ in the way it is said to exist. The claim to have ‘isolated’ the HIV ‘virus’ will be presented in its real context as we come to the shocking story – and it is a story – of SARS-CoV-2 and so will Montagnier’s assertion that he identiﬁed the full SARS-CoV-2 genome.

Hoax in the making We can pick up the ‘Covid’ story in 2010 and the publication by the Rockefeller Foundation of a document called ‘Scenarios for the Future of Technology and International Development’. The inner circle of the Rockefeller family has been serving the Cult since John D. Rockefeller (1839-1937) made his fortune with Standard Oil. It is less well known that the same Rockefeller – the Bill Gates of his day – was responsible for establishing what is now referred to as ‘Big Pharma’, the global network of pharmaceutical companies that make outrageous proﬁts dispensing scalpel and drug ‘medicine’ and are obsessed with pumping vaccines in ever-increasing number into as many human arms and backsides as possible. John D. Rockefeller was the driving force behind the creation of the ‘education’ system in the United States and elsewhere speciﬁcally designed to program the perceptions of generations therea er. The Rockefeller family donated exceptionally valuable land in New York for the United Nations building and were central in establishing the World Health Organization in 1948 as an agency of the UN which was created from the start as a Trojan horse and stalking horse for world government. Now enter Bill Gates. His family and the Rockefellers have long been extremely close and I have seen genealogy which claims that if you go back far enough the two families fuse into the same bloodline. Gates has said that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation was inspired by the Rockefeller Foundation and why not when both are serving the same Cult? Major tax-exempt foundations are overwhelmingly criminal enterprises in which Cult assets fund the Cult agenda in the guise of ‘philanthropy’ while avoiding tax in the process. Cult operatives can become mega-rich in their role of front men and women for the psychopaths at the inner core and they, too, have to be psychopaths to knowingly serve such evil. Part of the deal is that a big percentage of the wealth gleaned from representing the Cult has to be spent advancing the ambitions of the Cult and hence you have the Rockefeller Foundation, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (and so many more) and people like George Soros with his global Open Society Foundations spending their billions in pursuit of global Cult control. Gates is a global public face of the Cult with his interventions in world aﬀairs including Big Tech inﬂuence; a central role in the ‘Covid’ and ‘vaccine’ scam; promotion of the climate change shakedown; manipulation of education; geoengineering of the skies; and his food-control agenda as the biggest owner of farmland in America, his GMO promotion and through other means. As one writer said: ‘Gates monopolizes or wields disproportionate inﬂuence over the tech industry, global health and vaccines, agriculture and food policy (including biopiracy and fake food), weather modiﬁcation and other climate technologies, surveillance, education and media.’ The almost limitless wealth secured through Microso and other not-allowed- to-fail ventures (including vaccines) has been ploughed into a long, long list of Cult projects designed to enslave the entire human race. Gates and the Rockefellers have been working as one unit with the Rockefeller-established World Health Organization leading global ‘Covid’ policy controlled by Gates through his mouth-piece Tedros. Gates became the WHO’s biggest funder when Trump announced that the American government would cease its donations, but Biden immediately said he would restore the money when he took oﬃce in January, 2021. The Gates Foundation (the Cult) owns through limitless funding the world health system and the major players across the globe in the ‘Covid’ hoax.  Okay, with that background we return to that Rockefeller Foundation document of 2010 headed ‘Scenarios for the Future of Technology and International Development’ and its ‘imaginary’ epidemic of a virulent and deadly inﬂuenza strain which infected 20 percent of the global population and killed eight million in seven months. The Rockefeller scenario was that the epidemic destroyed economies, closed shops, oﬃces and other businesses and led to governments imposing ﬁerce rules and restrictions that included mandatory wearing of face masks and body-temperature checks to enter communal spaces like railway stations and supermarkets. The document predicted that even a er the height of the Rockefeller- envisaged epidemic the authoritarian rule would continue to deal with further pandemics, transnational terrorism, environmental crises and rising poverty. Now you may think that the Rockefellers are our modern-day seers or alternatively, and rather more likely, that they well knew what was planned a few years further on. Fascism had to be imposed, you see, to ‘protect citizens from risk and exposure’. The Rockefeller scenario document said:

During the pandemic, national leaders around the world flexed their authority and imposed airtight rules and restrictions, from the mandatory wearing of face masks to body-temperature checks at the entries to communal spaces like train stations and supermarkets. Even after the pandemic faded, this more authoritarian control and oversight of citizens and their activities stuck and even intensified. In order to protect themselves from the spread of increasingly global problems – from pandemics and transnational terrorism to environmental crises and rising poverty – leaders around the world took a firmer grip on power.

At first, the notion of a more controlled world gained wide acceptance and approval. Citizens willingly gave up some of their sovereignty – and their privacy – to more paternalistic states in exchange for greater safety and stability. Citizens were more tolerant, and even eager, for top- down direction and oversight, and national leaders had more latitude to impose order in the ways they saw fit.

In developed countries, this heightened oversight took many forms: biometric IDs for all citizens, for example, and tighter regulation of key industries whose stability was deemed vital to national interests. In many developed countries, enforced cooperation with a suite of new regulations and agreements slowly but steadily restored both order and, importantly, economic growth.  There we have the prophetic Rockefellers in 2010 and three years later came their paper for the Global Health Summit in Beĳing, China, when government representatives, the private sector, international organisations and groups met to discuss the next 100 years of ‘global health’. The Rockefeller Foundation-funded paper was called ‘Dreaming the Future of Health for the Next 100 Years and more prophecy ensued as it described a dystopian future: ‘The abundance of data, digitally tracking and linking people may mean the ‘death of privacy’ and may replace physical interaction with transient, virtual connection, generating isolation and raising questions of how values are shaped in virtual networks.’ Next in the ‘Covid’ hoax preparation sequence came a ‘table top’ simulation in 2018 for another ‘imaginary’ pandemic of a disease called Clade X which was said to kill 900 million people. The exercise was organised by the Gates-funded Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Health Security in the United States and this is the very same university that has been compiling the disgustingly and systematically erroneous global ﬁgures for ‘Covid’ cases and deaths. Similar Johns Hopkins health crisis scenarios have included the Dark Winter exercise in 2001 and Atlantic Storm in 2005.

Nostradamus 201 For sheer predictive genius look no further prophecy-watchers than the Bill Gates-funded Event 201 held only six weeks before the ‘coronavirus pandemic’ is supposed to have broken out in China and Event 201 was based on a scenario of a global ‘coronavirus pandemic’. Melinda Gates, the great man’s missus, told the BBC that he had ‘prepared for years’ for a coronavirus pandemic which told us what we already knew. Nostradamugates had predicted in a TED talk in 2015 that a pandemic was coming that would kill a lot of people and demolish the world economy. My god, the man is a machine – possibly even literally. Now here he was only weeks before the real thing funding just such a simulated scenario and involving his friends and associates at Johns Hopkins, the World Economic Forum Cult-front of Klaus Schwab, the United Nations, Johnson & Johnson, major banks, and oﬃcials from China and the Centers for Disease Control in the United States. What synchronicity – Johns Hopkins would go on to compile the fraudulent ‘Covid’ ﬁgures, the World Economic Forum and Schwab would push the ‘Great Reset’ in response to ‘Covid’, the Centers for Disease Control would be at the forefront of ‘Covid’ policy in the United States, Johnson & Johnson would produce a ‘Covid vaccine’, and everything would oﬃcially start just weeks later in China. Spooky, eh? They were even accurate in creating a simulation of a ‘virus’ pandemic because the ‘real thing’ would also be a simulation. Event 201 was not an exercise preparing for something that might happen; it was a rehearsal for what those in control knew was going to happen and very shortly. Hours of this simulation were posted on the Internet and the various themes and responses mirrored what would soon be imposed to transform human society. News stories were inserted and what they said would be commonplace a few weeks later with still more prophecy perfection. Much discussion focused on the need to deal with misinformation and the ‘anti-vax movement’ which is exactly what happened when the ‘virus’ arrived – was said to have arrived – in the West.  Cult-owned social media banned criticism and exposure of the oﬃcial ‘virus’ narrative and when I said there was no ‘virus’ in early April, 2020, I was banned by one platform a er another including YouTube, Facebook and later Twi er. The mainstream broadcast media in Britain was in eﬀect banned from interviewing me by the Tony-Blair-created government broadcasting censor Ofcom headed by career government bureaucrat Melanie Dawes who was appointed just as the ‘virus’ hoax was about to play out in January, 2020. At the same time the Ickonic media platform was using Vimeo, another ultra-Zionist-owned operation, while our own player was being created and they deleted in an instant hundreds of videos, documentaries, series and shows to conﬁrm their unbelievable vindictiveness. We had copies, of course, and they had to be restored one by one when our player was ready. These people have no class. Sabbatian Facebook promised free advertisements for the Gates- controlled World Health Organization narrative while deleting ‘false claims and conspiracy theories’ to stop ‘misinformation’ about the alleged coronavirus. All these responses could be seen just a short while earlier in the scenarios of Event 201. Extreme censorship was absolutely crucial for the Cult because the oﬃcial story was so ridiculous and unsupportable by the evidence that it could never survive open debate and the free-ﬂow of information and opinion. If you can’t win a debate then don’t have one is the Cult’s approach throughout history. Facebook’s li le boy front man – front boy – Mark Zuckerberg equated ‘credible and accurate information’ with oﬃcial sources and exposing their lies with ‘misinformation’.

Silencing those that can see The censorship dynamic of Event 201 is now the norm with an army of narrative-supporting ‘fact-checker’ organisations whose entire reason for being is to tell the public that oﬃcial narratives are true and those exposing them are lying. One of the most appalling of these ‘fact-checkers’ is called NewsGuard founded by ultra-Zionist Americans Gordon Crovitz and Steven Brill. Crovitz is a former publisher of The Wall Street Journal, former Executive Vice President of Dow Jones, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), and on the board of the American Association of Rhodes Scholars. The CFR and Rhodes Scholarships, named a er Rothschild agent Cecil Rhodes who plundered the gold and diamonds of South Africa for his masters and the Cult, have featured widely in my books. NewsGuard don’t seem to like me for some reason – I really can’t think why – and they have done all they can to have me censored and discredited which is, to quote an old British politician, like being savaged by a dead sheep. They are, however, like all in the censorship network, very well connected and funded by organisations themselves funded by, or connected to, Bill Gates. As you would expect with anything associated with Gates NewsGuard has an oﬀshoot called HealthGuard which ‘ﬁghts online health care hoaxes’. How very kind. Somehow the NewsGuard European Managing Director Anna-Sophie Harling, a remarkably young- looking woman with no broadcasting experience and li le hands-on work in journalism, has somehow secured a position on the ‘Content Board’ of UK government broadcast censor Ofcom. An executive of an organisation seeking to discredit dissidents of the oﬃcial narratives is making decisions for the government broadcast ‘regulator’ about content?? Another appalling ‘fact-checker’ is Full Fact funded by George Soros and global censors Google and Facebook.  It’s amazing how many activists in the ‘fact-checking’, ‘anti-hate’, arena turn up in government-related positions – people like UK Labour Party activist Imran Ahmed who heads the Center for Countering Digital Hate founded by people like Morgan McSweeney, now chief of staﬀ to the Labour Party’s hapless and useless ‘leader’ Keir Starmer. Digital Hate – which is what it really is – uses the American spelling of Center to betray its connection to a transatlantic network of similar organisations which in 2020 shapeshi ed from a acking people for ‘hate’ to a acking them for questioning the ‘Covid’ hoax and the dangers of the ‘Covid vaccine’. It’s just a coincidence, you understand. This is one of Imran Ahmed’s hysterical statements: ‘I would go beyond calling anti-vaxxers conspiracy theorists to say they are an extremist group that pose a national security risk.’ No one could ever accuse this prat of understatement and he’s including in that those parents who are now against vaccines a er their children were damaged for life or killed by them. He’s such a nice man. Ahmed does the rounds of the Woke media ge ing so -ball questions from spineless ‘journalists’ who never ask what right he has to campaign to destroy the freedom of speech of others while he demands it for himself. There also seems to be an overrepresentation in Ofcom of people connected to the narrative-worshipping BBC. This incredible global network of narrative-support was super-vital when the ‘Covid’ hoax was played in the light of the mega-whopper lies that have to be defended from the spotlight cast by the most basic intelligence.

Setting the scene The Cult plays the long game and proceeds step-by-step ensuring that everything is in place before major cards are played and they don’t come any bigger than the ‘Covid’ hoax. The psychopaths can’t handle events where the outcome isn’t certain and as li le as possible – preferably nothing – is le to chance. Politicians, government and medical oﬃcials who would follow direction were brought to illusory power in advance by the Cult web whether on the national stage or others like state governors and mayors of America. For decades the dynamic between oﬃcialdom, law enforcement and the public was changed from one of service to one of control and dictatorship. Behaviour manipulation networks established within government were waiting to impose the coming ‘Covid’ rules and regulations speciﬁcally designed to subdue and rewire the psyche of the people in the guise of protecting health. These included in the UK the Behavioural Insights Team part-owned by the British government Cabinet Oﬃce; the Scientiﬁc Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B); and a whole web of intelligence and military groups seeking to direct the conversation on social media and control the narrative. Among them are the cyberwarfare (on the people) 77th Brigade of the British military which is also coordinated through the Cabinet Oﬃce as civilian and military leadership continues to combine in what they call the Fusion Doctrine. The 77th Brigade is a British equivalent of the infamous Israeli (Sabbatian) military cyberwarfare and Internet manipulation operation Unit 8200 which I expose at length in The Trigger. Also carefully in place were the medical and science advisers to government – many on the payroll past or present of Bill Gates – and a whole alternative structure of unelected government stood by to take control when elected parliaments were eﬀectively closed down once the ‘Covid’ card was slammed on the table. The structure I have described here and so much more was installed in every major country through the Cult networks. The top-down control hierarchy looks like this: The Cult – Cult-owned Gates – the World Health Organization and Tedros – Gates-funded or controlled chief medical oﬃcers and science ‘advisers’ (dictators) in each country – political ‘leaders’– law enforcement – The People. Through this simple global communication and enforcement structure the policy of the Cult could be imposed on virtually the entire human population so long as they acquiesced to the fascism. With everything in place it was time for the bu on to be pressed in late 2019/early 2020. These were the prime goals the Cult had to secure for its will to prevail:

1) Locking down economies, closing all but designated ‘essential’ businesses (Cult-owned corporations were ‘essential’), and pu ing the population under house arrest was an imperative to destroy independent income and employment and ensure dependency on the Cult-controlled state in the Hunger Games Society. Lockdowns had to be established as the global blueprint from the start to respond to the ‘virus’ and followed by pre y much the entire world.

2) The global population had to be terriﬁed into believing in a deadly ‘virus’ that didn’t actually exist so they would unquestioningly obey authority in the belief that authority must know how best to protect them and their families. So ware salesman Gates would suddenly morph into the world’s health expert and be promoted as such by the Cult-owned media.

3) A method of testing that wasn’t testing for the ‘virus’, but was only claimed to be, had to be in place to provide the illusion of ‘cases’ and subsequent ‘deaths’ that had a very diﬀerent cause to the ‘Covid-19’ that would be scribbled on the death certiﬁcate.

4) Because there was no ‘virus’ and the great majority testing positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ would have no symptoms of anything the lie had to be sold that people without symptoms (without the ‘virus’) could still pass it on to others. This was crucial to justify for the ﬁrst time quarantining – house arresting – healthy people. Without this the economy-destroying lockdown of everybody could not have been credibly sold.

5) The ‘saviour’ had to be seen as a vaccine which beyond evil drug companies were working like angels of mercy to develop as quickly as possible, with all corners cut, to save the day. The public must absolutely not know that the ‘vaccine’ had nothing to do with a ‘virus’ or that the contents were ready and waiting with a very diﬀerent motive long before the ‘Covid’ card was even li ed from the pack.


I said in March, 2020, that the ‘vaccine’ would have been created way ahead of the ‘Covid’ hoax which justiﬁed its use and the following December an article in the New York Intelligencer magazine said the Moderna ‘vaccine’ had been ‘designed’ by January, 2020. This was ‘before China had even acknowledged that the disease could be transmi ed from human to human, more than a week before the ﬁrst conﬁrmed coronavirus case in the United States’. The article said that by the time the ﬁrst American death was announced a month later ‘the vaccine had already been manufactured and shipped to the National Institutes of Health for the beginning of its Phase I clinical trial’. The ‘vaccine’ was actually ‘designed’ long before that although even with this timescale you would expect the article to ask how on earth it could have been done that quickly. Instead it asked why the ‘vaccine’ had not been rolled out then and not months later. Journalism in the mainstream is truly dead. I am going to detail in the next chapter why the ‘virus’ has never existed and how a hoax on that scale was possible, but ﬁrst the foundation on which the Big Lie of ‘Covid’ was built.

The test that doesn’t test Fraudulent ‘testing’ is the bo om line of the whole ‘Covid’ hoax and was the means by which a ‘virus’ that did not exist appeared to exist. They could only achieve this magic trick by using a test not testing for the ‘virus’. To use a test that was testing for the ‘virus’ would mean that every test would come back negative given there was no ‘virus’. They chose to exploit something called the RT-PCR test invented by American biochemist Kary Mullis in the 1980s who said publicly that his PCR test … cannot detect infectious disease. Yes, the ‘test’ used worldwide to detect infectious ‘Covid’ to produce all the illusory ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’ compiled by Johns Hopkins and others cannot detect infectious disease. This fact came from the mouth of the man who invented PCR and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1993 for doing so. Sadly, and incredibly conveniently for the Cult, Mullis died in August, 2019, at the age of 74 just before his test would be fraudulently used to unleash fascism on the world. He was said to have died from pneumonia which was an irony in itself. A few months later he would have had ‘Covid-19’ on his death certiﬁcate. I say the timing of his death was convenient because had he lived Mullis, a brilliant, honest and decent man, would have been vociferously speaking out against the use of his test to detect ‘Covid’ when it was never designed, or able, to do that. I know that to be true given that Mullis made the same point when his test was used to ‘detect’ – not detect – HIV. He had been seriously critical of the Gallo/Montagnier claim to have isolated the HIV ‘virus’ and shown it to cause AIDS for which Mullis said there was no evidence. AIDS is actually not a disease but a series of diseases from which people die all the time. When they die from those same diseases a er a positive ‘test’ for HIV then AIDS goes on their death certiﬁcate. I think I’ve heard that before somewhere. Countries instigated a policy with ‘Covid’ that anyone who tested positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ and died of any other cause within 28 days and even longer ‘Covid-19’ had to go on the death certiﬁcate. Cases have come from the test that can’t test for infectious disease and the deaths are those who have died of anything a er testing positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’. I’ll have much more later about the death certiﬁcate scandal.  Mullis was deeply dismissive of the now US ‘Covid’ star Anthony Fauci who he said was a liar who didn’t know anything about anything – ‘and I would say that to his face – nothing.’ He said of Fauci: ‘The man thinks he can take a blood sample, put it in an electron microscope and if it’s got a virus in there you’ll know it – he doesn’t understand electron microscopy and he doesn’t understand medicine and shouldn’t be in a position like he’s in.’ That position, terrifyingly, has made him the decider of ‘Covid’ fascism policy on behalf of the Cult in his role as director since 1984 of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) while his record of being wrong is laughable; but being wrong, so long as it’s the right kind of wrong, is why the Cult loves him. He’ll say anything the Cult tells him to say. Fauci was made Chief Medical Adviser to the President immediately Biden took oﬃce. Biden was installed in the White House by Cult manipulation and one of his ﬁrst decisions was to elevate Fauci to a position of even more control. This is a coincidence? Yes, and I identify as a ﬂamenco dancer called Lola. How does such an incompetent criminal like Fauci remain in that pivotal position in American health since the 1980s? When you serve the Cult it looks a er you until you are surplus to requirements. Kary Mullis said prophetically of Fauci and his like: ‘Those guys have an agenda and it’s not an agenda we would like them to have … they make their own rules, they change them when they want to, and Tony Fauci does not mind going on television in front of the people who pay his salary and lie directly into the camera.’ Fauci has done that almost daily since the ‘Covid’ hoax began. Lying is in Fauci’s DNA. To make the situation crystal clear about the PCR test this is a direct quote from its inventor Kary Mullis:

It [the PCR test] doesn’t tell you that you’re sick and doesn’t tell you that the thing you ended up with was really going to hurt you ...’


Ask yourself why governments and medical systems the world over have been using this very test to decide who is ‘infected’ with the SARS-CoV-2 ‘virus’ and the alleged disease it allegedly causes, ‘Covid-19’. The answer to that question will tell you what has been going on. By the way, here’s a li le show-stopper – the ‘new’ SARS- CoV-2 ‘virus’ was ‘identiﬁed’ as such right from the start using … the PCR test not testing for the ‘virus’. If you are new to this and ﬁnd that shocking then stick around. I have hardly started yet. Even worse, other ‘tests’, like the ‘Lateral Flow Device’ (LFD), are considered so useless that they have to be confirmed by the PCR test! Leaked emails wri en by Ben Dyson, adviser to UK ‘Health’ Secretary Ma Hancock, said they were ‘dangerously unreliable’. Dyson, executive director of strategy at the Department of Health, wrote: ‘As of today, someone who gets a positive LFD result in (say) London has at best a 25 per cent chance of it being a true positive, but if it is a self- reported test potentially as low as 10 per cent (on an optimistic assumption about speciﬁcity) or as low as 2 per cent (on a more pessimistic assumption).’ These are the ‘tests’ that schoolchildren and the public are being urged to have twice a week or more and have to isolate if they get a positive. Each fake positive goes in the statistics as a ‘case’ no ma er how ludicrously inaccurate and the ‘cases’ drive lockdown, masks and the pressure to ‘vaccinate’. The government said in response to the email leak that the ‘tests’ were accurate which conﬁrmed yet again what shocking bloody liars they are. The real false positive rate is 100 percent as we’ll see. In another ‘you couldn’t make it up’ the UK government agreed to pay £2.8 billion to California’s Innova Medical Group to supply the irrelevant lateral ﬂow tests. The company’s primary test-making centre is in China. Innova Medical Group, established in March, 2020, is owned by Pasaca Capital Inc, chaired by Chinese-American millionaire Charles Huang who was born in Wuhan.

How it works – and how it doesn’t The RT-PCR test, known by its full title of Polymerase chain reaction, is used across the world to make millions, even billions, of copies of a DNA/RNA genetic information sample. The process is called ‘ampliﬁcation’ and means that a tiny sample of genetic material is ampliﬁed to bring out the detailed content. I stress that it is not testing for an infectious disease. It is simply amplifying a sample of genetic material. In the words of Kary Mullis: ‘PCR is … just a process that’s used to make a whole lot of something out of something.’ To emphasise the point companies that make the PCR tests circulated around the world to ‘test’ for ‘Covid’ warn on the box that it can’t be used to detect ‘Covid’ or infectious disease and is for research purposes only. It’s okay, rest for a minute and you’ll be ﬁne. This is the test that produces the ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’ that have been used to destroy human society. All those global and national medical and scientiﬁc ‘experts’ demanding this destruction to ‘save us’ KNOW that the test is not testing for the ‘virus’ and the cases and deaths they claim to be real are an almost unimaginable fraud. Every one of them and so many others including politicians and psychopaths like Gates and Tedros must be brought before Nuremburg-type trials and jailed for the rest of their lives. The more the genetic sample is ampliﬁed by PCR the more elements of that material become sensitive to the test and by that I don’t mean sensitive for a ‘virus’ but for elements of the genetic material which is naturally in the body or relates to remnants of old conditions of various kinds lying dormant and causing no disease. Once the ampliﬁcation of the PCR reaches a certain level everyone will test positive. So much of the material has been made sensitive to the test that everyone will have some part of it in their body. Even lying criminals like Fauci have said that once PCR ampliﬁcations pass 35 cycles everything will be a false positive that cannot be trusted for the reasons I have described. I say, like many proper doctors and scientists, that 100 percent of the ‘positives’ are false, but let’s just go with Fauci for a moment.  He says that any ampliﬁcation over 35 cycles will produce false positives and yet the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have recommended up to 40 cycles and the National Health Service (NHS) in Britain admi ed in an internal document for staﬀ that it was using 45 cycles of ampliﬁcation. A long list of other countries has been doing the same and at least one ‘testing’ laboratory has been using 50 cycles. Have you ever heard a doctor, medical ‘expert’ or the media ask what level of ampliﬁcation has been used to claim a ‘positive’. The ‘test’ comes back ‘positive’ and so you have the ‘virus’, end of story. Now we can see how the government in Tanzania could send oﬀ samples from a goat and a pawpaw fruit under human names and both came back positive for ‘Covid-19’. Tanzania president John Magufuli mocked the ‘Covid’ hysteria, the PCR test and masks and refused to import the DNA-manipulating ‘vaccine’. The Cult hated him and an article sponsored by the Bill Gates Foundation appeared in the London Guardian in February, 2021, headed ‘It’s time for Africa to rein in Tanzania’s anti-vaxxer president’. Well, ‘reined in’ he shortly was. Magufuli appeared in good health, but then, in March, 2021, he was dead at 61 from ‘heart failure’. He was replaced by Samia Hassan Suhulu who is connected to Klaus Schwab’s World Economic Forum and she immediately reversed Magufuli’s ‘Covid’ policy. A sample of cola tested positive for ‘Covid’ with the PCR test in Germany while American actress and singer-songwriter Erykah Badu tested positive in one nostril and negative in the other. Footballer Ronaldo called the PCR test ‘bullshit’ a er testing positive three times and being forced to quarantine and miss matches when there was nothing wrong with him. The mantra from Tedros at the World Health Organization and national governments (same thing) has been test, test, test. They know that the more tests they can generate the more fake ‘cases’ they have which go on to become ‘deaths’ in ways I am coming to. The UK government has its Operation Moonshot planned to test multiple millions every day in workplaces and schools with free tests for everyone to use twice a week at home in line with the Cult plan from the start to make testing part of life. A government advertisement for an ‘Interim Head of Asymptomatic Testing Communication’ said the job included responsibility for delivering a ‘communications strategy’ (propaganda) ‘to support the expansion of asymptomatic testing that ‘normalises testing as part of everyday life’. More tests means more fake ‘cases’, ‘deaths’ and fascism. I have heard of, and from, many people who booked a test, couldn’t turn up, and yet got a positive result through the post for a test they’d never even had. The whole thing is crazy, but for the Cult there’s method in the madness. Controlling and manipulating the level of ampliﬁcation of the test means the authorities can control whenever they want the number of apparent ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’. If they want to justify more fascist lockdown and destruction of livelihoods they keep the ampliﬁcation high. If they want to give the illusion that lockdowns and the ‘vaccine’ are working then they lower the ampliﬁcation and ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’ will appear to fall. In January, 2021, the Cult-owned World Health Organization suddenly warned laboratories about over-ampliﬁcation of the test and to lower the threshold. Suddenly headlines began appearing such as: ‘Why ARE “Covid” cases plummeting?’ This was just when the vaccine rollout was underway and I had predicted months before they would make cases appear to fall through ampliﬁcation tampering when the ‘vaccine’ came. These people are so predictable.

Cow vaccines? The question must be asked of what is on the test swabs being poked far up the nose of the population to the base of the brain? A nasal swab punctured one woman’s brain and caused it to leak ﬂuid. Most of these procedures are being done by people with li le training or medical knowledge. Dr Lorraine Day, former orthopaedic trauma surgeon and Chief of Orthopaedic Surgery at San Francisco General Hospital, says the tests are really a ‘vaccine’. Cows have long been vaccinated this way. She points out that masks have to cover the nose and the mouth where it is claimed the ‘virus’ exists in saliva. Why then don’t they take saliva from the mouth as they do with a DNA test instead of pushing a long swab up the nose towards the brain? The ethmoid bone separates the nasal cavity from the brain and within that bone is the cribriform plate. Dr Day says that when the swab is pushed up against this plate and twisted the procedure is ‘depositing things back there’. She claims that among these ‘things’ are nanoparticles that can enter the brain. Researchers have noted that a team at the Gates-funded Johns Hopkins have designed tiny, star-shaped micro-devices that can latch onto intestinal mucosa and release drugs into the body. Mucosa is the thin skin that covers the inside surface of parts of the body such as the nose and mouth and produces mucus to protect them. The Johns Hopkins micro-devices are called ‘theragrippers’ and were ‘inspired’ by a parasitic worm that digs its sharp teeth into a host’s intestines. Nasal swabs are also coated in the sterilisation agent ethylene oxide. The US National Cancer Institute posts this explanation on its website:

At room temperature, ethylene oxide is a flammable colorless gas with a sweet odor. It is used primarily to produce other chemicals, including antifreeze. In smaller amounts, ethylene oxide is used as a pesticide and a sterilizing agent. The ability of ethylene oxide to damage DNA makes it an effective sterilizing agent but also accounts for its cancer-causing activity.


The Institute mentions lymphoma and leukaemia as cancers most frequently reported to be associated with occupational exposure to ethylene oxide along with stomach and breast cancers. How does anyone think this is going to work out with the constant testing regime being inﬂicted on adults and children at home and at school that will accumulate in the body anything that’s on the swab?

Doctors know best It is vital for people to realise that ‘hero’ doctors ‘know’ only what the Big Pharma-dominated medical authorities tell them to ‘know’ and if they refuse to ‘know’ what they are told to ‘know’ they are out the door. They are mostly not physicians or healers, but repeaters of the oﬃcial narrative – or else. I have seen alleged professional doctors on British television make shocking statements that we are supposed to take seriously. One called ‘Dr’ Amir Khan, who is actually telling patients how to respond to illness, said that men could take the birth pill to ‘help slow down the eﬀects of Covid-19’. In March, 2021, another ridiculous ‘Covid study’ by an American doctor proposed injecting men with the female sex hormone progesterone as a ‘Covid’ treatment. British doctor Nighat Arif told the BBC that face coverings were now going to be part of ongoing normal. Yes, the vaccine protects you, she said (evidence?) … but the way to deal with viruses in the community was always going to come down to hand washing, face covering and keeping a physical distance. That’s not what we were told before the ‘vaccine’ was circulating. Arif said she couldn’t imagine ever again going on the underground or in a li without a mask. I was just thanking my good luck that she was not my doctor when she said – in March, 2021 – that if ‘we are behaving and we are doing all the right things’ she thought we could ‘have our nearest and dearest around us at home … around Christmas and New Year! Her patronising delivery was the usual school teacher talking to six-year-olds as she repeated every government talking point and probably believed them all. If we have learned anything from the ‘Covid’ experience surely it must be that humanity’s perception of doctors needs a fundamental rethink. NHS ‘doctor’ Sara Kayat told her television audience that the ‘Covid vaccine’ would ‘100 percent prevent hospitalisation and death’. Not even Big Pharma claimed that. We have to stop taking ‘experts’ at their word without question when so many of them are clueless and only repeating the party line on which their careers depend. That is not to say there are not brilliants doctors – there are and I have spoken to many of them since all this began – but you won’t see them in the mainstream media or quoted by the psychopaths and yes-people in government.

Remember the name – Christian Drosten German virologist Christian Drosten, Director of Charité Institute of Virology in Berlin, became a national star a er the pandemic hoax began. He was feted on television and advised the German government on ‘Covid’ policy. Most importantly to the wider world Drosten led a group that produced the ‘Covid’ testing protocol for the PCR test. What a remarkable feat given the PCR cannot test for infectious disease and even more so when you think that Drosten said that his method of testing for SARS-CoV-2 was developed ‘without having virus material available’. He developed a test for a ‘virus’ that he didn’t have and had never seen. Let that sink in as you survey the global devastation that came from what he did. The whole catastrophe of Drosten’s ‘test’ was based on the alleged genetic sequence published by Chinese scientists on the Internet. We will see in the next chapter that this alleged ‘genetic sequence’ has never been produced by China or anyone and cannot be when there is no SARS-CoV-2. Drosten, however, doesn’t seem to let li le details like that get in the way. He was the lead author with Victor Corman from the same Charité Hospital of the paper ‘Detection of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) by real-time PCR‘ published in a magazine called Eurosurveillance. This became known as the Corman-Drosten paper. In November, 2020, with human society devastated by the eﬀects of the Corman-Drosten test baloney, the protocol was publicly challenged by 22 international scientists and independent researchers from Europe, the United States, and Japan. Among them were senior molecular geneticists, biochemists, immunologists, and microbiologists. They produced a document headed ‘External peer review of the RTPCR test to detect SARS-Cov-2 Reveals 10 Major Flaws At The Molecular and Methodological Level: Consequences For False-Positive Results’. The ﬂaws in the Corman-Drosten test included the following:

• The test is non-speciﬁc because of erroneous design • Results are enormously variable • The test is unable to discriminate between the whole ‘virus’ and viral fragments • It doesn’t have positive or negative controls • The test lacks a standard operating procedure • It is unsupported by proper peer view

 The scientists said the PCR ‘Covid’ testing protocol was not founded on science and they demanded the Corman-Drosten paper be retracted by Eurosurveillance. They said all present and previous Covid deaths, cases, and ‘infection rates’ should be subject to a massive retroactive inquiry. Lockdowns and travel restrictions should be reviewed and relaxed and those diagnosed through PCR to have ‘Covid-19’ should not be forced to isolate. Dr Kevin Corbe , a health researcher and nurse educator with a long academic career producing a stream of peer-reviewed publications at many UK universities, made the same point about the PCR test debacle. He said of the scientists’ conclusions: ‘Every scientiﬁc rationale for the development of that test has been totally destroyed by this paper. It’s like Hiroshima/Nagasaki to the Covid test.’ He said that China hadn’t given them an isolated ‘virus’ when Drosten developed the test. Instead they had developed the test from a sequence in a gene bank.’ Put another way … they made it up! The scientists were supported in this contention by a Portuguese appeals court which ruled in November, 2020, that PCR tests are unreliable and it is unlawful to quarantine people based solely on a PCR test. The point about China not providing an isolated virus must be true when the ‘virus’ has never been isolated to this day and the consequences of that will become clear. Drosten and company produced this useless ‘protocol’ right on cue in January, 2020, just as the ‘virus’ was said to be moving westward and it somehow managed to successfully pass a peer-review in 24 hours. In other words there was no peer-review for a test that would be used to decide who had ‘Covid’ and who didn’t across the world. The Cult-created, Gates-controlled World Health Organization immediately recommended all its nearly 200 member countries to use the Drosten PCR protocol to detect ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’. The sting was underway and it continues to this day. So who is this Christian Drosten that produced the means through which death, destruction and economic catastrophe would be justiﬁed? His education background, including his doctoral thesis, would appear to be somewhat shrouded in mystery and his track record is dire as with another essential player in the ‘Covid’ hoax, the Gates-funded Professor Neil Ferguson at the Gates-funded Imperial College in London of whom more shortly. Drosten predicted in 2003 that the alleged original SARS ‘virus’ (SARS-1’) was an epidemic that could have serious eﬀects on economies and an eﬀective vaccine would take at least two years to produce. Drosten’s answer to every alleged ‘outbreak’ is a vaccine which you won’t be shocked to know. What followed were just 774 oﬃcial deaths worldwide and none in Germany where there were only nine cases. That is even if you believe there ever was a SARS ‘virus’ when the evidence is zilch and I will expand on this in the next chapter. Drosten claims to be co-discoverer of ‘SARS-1’ and developed a test for it in 2003. He was screaming warnings about ‘swine ﬂu’ in 2009 and how it was a widespread infection far more severe than any dangers from a vaccine could be and people should get vaccinated. It would be helpful for Drosten’s vocal chords if he simply recorded the words ‘the virus is deadly and you need to get vaccinated’ and copies could be handed out whenever the latest made-up threat comes along. Drosten’s swine ﬂu epidemic never happened, but Big Pharma didn’t mind with governments spending hundreds of millions on vaccines that hardly anyone bothered to use and many who did wished they hadn’t. A study in 2010 revealed that the risk of dying from swine ﬂu, or H1N1, was no higher than that of the annual seasonal ﬂu which is what at least most of ‘it’ really was as in the case of ‘Covid-19’. A media investigation into Drosten asked how with such a record of inaccuracy he could be the government adviser on these issues. The answer to that question is the same with Drosten, Ferguson and Fauci – they keep on giving the authorities the ‘conclusions’ and ‘advice’ they want to hear. Drosten certainly produced the goods for them in January, 2020, with his PCR protocol garbage and provided the foundation of what German internal medicine specialist Dr Claus Köhnlein, co-author of Virus Mania, called the ‘test pandemic’. The 22 scientists in the Eurosurveillance challenge called out conﬂicts of interest within the Drosten ‘protocol’ group and with good reason. Olfert Landt, a regular co-author of Drosten ‘studies’, owns the biotech company TIB Molbiol Syntheselabor GmbH in Berlin which manufactures and sells the tests that Drosten and his mates come up with. They have done this with SARS, Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC), MERS, Zika ‘virus’, yellow fever, and now ‘Covid’. Landt told the Berliner Zeitung newspaper:

The testing, design and development came from the Charité [Drosten and Corman]. We simply implemented it immediately in the form of a kit. And if we don’t have the virus, which originally only existed in Wuhan, we can make a synthetic gene to simulate the genome of the virus. That’s what we did very quickly.


 This is more conﬁrmation that the Drosten test was designed without access to the ‘virus’ and only a synthetic simulation which is what SARS-CoV-2 really is – a computer-generated synthetic ﬁction. It’s quite an enterprise they have going here. A Drosten team decides what the test for something should be and Landt’s biotech company ﬂogs it to governments and medical systems across the world. His company must have made an absolute fortune since the ‘Covid’ hoax began. Dr Reiner Fuellmich, a prominent German consumer protection trial lawyer in Germany and California, is on Drosten’s case and that of Tedros at the World Health Organization for crimes against humanity with a class-action lawsuit being prepared in the United States and other legal action in Germany. Why China? Scamming the world with a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist would seem impossible on the face of it, but not if you have control of the relatively few people that make policy decisions and the great majority of the global media. Remember it’s not about changing ‘real’ reality it’s about controlling perception of reality. You don’t have to make something happen you only have make people believe that it’s happening. Renegade Minds understand this and are therefore much harder to swindle. ‘Covid-19’ is not a ‘real’ ‘virus’. It’s a mind virus, like a computer virus, which has infected the minds, not the bodies, of billions. It all started, publically at least, in China and that alone is of central signiﬁcance. The Cult was behind the revolution led by its asset Mao Zedong, or Chairman Mao, which established the People’s Republic of China on October 1st, 1949. It should have been called The Cult’s Republic of China, but the name had to reﬂect the recurring illusion that vicious dictatorships are run by and for the people (see all the ‘Democratic Republics’ controlled by tyrants). In the same way we have the ‘Biden’ Democratic Republic of America oﬃcially ruled by a puppet tyrant (at least temporarily) on behalf of Cult tyrants. The creation of Mao’s merciless communist/fascist dictatorship was part of a frenzy of activity by the Cult at the conclusion of World War Two which, like the First World War, it had instigated through its assets in Germany, Britain, France, the United States and elsewhere. Israel was formed in 1948; the Soviet Union expanded its ‘Iron Curtain’ control, inﬂuence and military power with the Warsaw Pact communist alliance in 1955; the United Nations was formed in 1945 as a Cult precursor to world government; and a long list of world bodies would be established including the World Health Organization (1948), World Trade Organization (1948 under another name until 1995), International Monetary Fund (1945) and World Bank (1944). Human society was redrawn and hugely centralised in the global Problem-Reaction- Solution that was World War Two. All these changes were signiﬁcant. Israel would become the headquarters of the Sabbatians and the revolution in China would prepare the ground and control system for the events of 2019/2020.  Renegade Minds know there are no borders except for public consumption. The Cult is a seamless, borderless global entity and to understand the game we need to put aside labels like borders, nations, countries, communism, fascism and democracy. These delude the population into believing that countries are ruled within their borders by a government of whatever shade when these are mere agencies of a global power. America’s illusion of democracy and China’s communism/fascism are subsidiaries – vehicles – for the same agenda. We may hear about conﬂict and competition between America and China and on the lower levels that will be true; but at the Cult level they are branches of the same company in the way of the McDonald’s example I gave earlier. I have tracked in the books over the years support by US governments of both parties for Chinese Communist Party inﬁltration of American society through allowing the sale of land, even military facilities, and the acquisition of American business and university inﬂuence. All this is underpinned by the infamous stealing of intellectual property and technological know-how. Cult-owned Silicon Valley corporations waive their fraudulent ‘morality’ to do business with human-rights- free China; Cult-controlled Disney has become China’s PR department; and China in eﬀect owns ‘American’ sports such as basketball which depends for much of its income on Chinese audiences. As a result any sports player, coach or oﬃcial speaking out against China’s horriﬁc human rights record is immediately condemned or ﬁred by the China-worshipping National Basketball Association. One of the ﬁrst acts of China-controlled Biden was to issue an executive order telling federal agencies to stop making references to the ‘virus’ by the ‘geographic location of its origin’. Long-time Congressman Jerry Nadler warned that criticising China, America’s biggest rival, leads to hate crimes against Asian people in the United States. So shut up you bigot. China is fast closing in on Israel as a country that must not be criticised which is apt, really, given that Sabbatians control them both. The two countries have developed close economic, military, technological and strategic ties which include involvement in China’s ‘Silk Road’ transport and economic initiative to connect China with Europe. Israel was the ﬁrst country in the Middle East to recognise the establishment of Mao’s tyranny in 1950 months a er it was established.

Project Wuhan – the ‘Covid’ Psyop I emphasise again that the Cult plays the long game and what is happening to the world today is the result of centuries of calculated manipulation following a script to take control step-by-step of every aspect of human society. I will discuss later the common force behind all this that has spanned those centuries and thousands of years if the truth be told. Instigating the Mao revolution in China in 1949 with a 2020 ‘pandemic’ in mind is not only how they work – the 71 years between them is really quite short by the Cult’s standards of manipulation preparation. The reason for the Cult’s Chinese revolution was to create a ﬁercely-controlled environment within which an extreme structure for human control could be incubated to eventually be unleashed across the world. We have seen this happen since the ‘pandemic’ emerged from China with the Chinese control- structure founded on AI technology and tyrannical enforcement sweep across the West. Until the moment when the Cult went for broke in the West and put its fascism on public display Western governments had to pay some lip-service to freedom and democracy to not alert too many people to the tyranny-in-the-making. Freedoms were more subtly eroded and power centralised with covert government structures put in place waiting for the arrival of 2020 when that smokescreen of ‘freedom’ could be dispensed with. The West was not able to move towards tyranny before 2020 anything like as fast as China which was created as a tyranny and had no limits on how fast it could construct the Cult’s blueprint for global control. When the time came to impose that structure on the world it was the same Cult-owned Chinese communist/fascist government that provided the excuse – the ‘Covid pandemic’. It was absolutely crucial to the Cult plan for the Chinese response to the ‘pandemic’ – draconian lockdowns of the entire population – to become the blueprint that Western countries would follow to destroy the livelihoods and freedom of their people. This is why the Cult- owned, Gates-owned, WHO Director-General Tedros said early on:

The Chinese government is to be congratulated for the extraordinary measures it has taken to contain the outbreak. China is actually setting a new standard for outbreak response and it is not an exaggeration.


Forbes magazine said of China: ‘… those measures protected untold millions from ge ing the disease’. The Rockefeller Foundation ‘epidemic scenario’ document in 2010 said ‘prophetically’:

However, a few countries did fare better – China in particular. The Chinese government’s quick imposition and enforcement of mandatory quarantine for all citizens, as well as its instant and near-hermetic sealing off of all borders, saved millions of lives, stopping the spread of the virus far earlier than in other countries and enabling a swifter post-pandemic recovery.


Once again – spooky.  The ﬁrst oﬃcial story was the ‘bat theory’ or rather the bat diversion. The source of the ‘virus outbreak’ we were told was a ‘‘wet market’ in Wuhan where bats and other animals are bought and eaten in horriﬁcally unhygienic conditions. Then another story emerged through the alternative media that the ‘virus’ had been released on purpose or by accident from a BSL-4 (biosafety level 4) laboratory in Wuhan not far from the wet market. The lab was reported to create and work with lethal concoctions and bioweapons. Biosafety level 4 is the highest in the World Health Organization system of safety and containment. Renegade Minds are aware of what I call designer manipulation. The ideal for the Cult is for people to buy its prime narrative which in the opening salvoes of the ‘pandemic’ was the wet market story. It knows, however, that there is now a considerable worldwide alternative media of researchers sceptical of anything governments say and they are o en given a version of events in a form they can perceive as credible while misdirecting them from the real truth. In this case let them think that the conspiracy involved is a ‘bioweapon virus’ released from the Wuhan lab to keep them from the real conspiracy – there is no ‘virus’. The WHO’s current position on the source of the outbreak at the time of writing appears to be: ‘We haven’t got a clue, mate.’ This is a good position to maintain mystery and bewilderment. The inner circle will know where the ‘virus’ came from – nowhere. The bo om line was to ensure the public believed there was a ‘virus’ and it didn’t much ma er if they thought it was natural or had been released from a lab. The belief that there was a ‘deadly virus’ was all that was needed to trigger global panic and fear. The population was terriﬁed into handing their power to authority and doing what they were told. They had to or they were ‘all gonna die’.  In March, 2020, information began to come my way from real doctors and scientists and my own additional research which had my intuition screaming: ‘Yes, that’s it! There is no virus.’ The ‘bioweapon’ was not the ‘virus’; it was the ‘vaccine’ already being talked about that would be the bioweapon. My conclusion was further enhanced by happenings in Wuhan. The ‘virus’ was said to be sweeping the city and news footage circulated of people collapsing in the street (which they’ve never done in the West with the same ‘virus’). The Chinese government was building ‘new hospitals’ in a ma er of ten days to ‘cope with demand’ such was the virulent nature of the ‘virus’. Yet in what seemed like no time the ‘new hospitals’ closed – even if they even opened – and China declared itself ‘virus-free’. It was back to business as usual. This was more propaganda to promote the Chinese draconian lockdowns in the West as the way to ‘beat the virus’. Trouble was that we subsequently had lockdown a er lockdown, but never business as usual. As the people of the West and most of the rest of the world were caught in an ever-worsening spiral of lockdown, social distancing, masks, isolated old people, families forced apart, and livelihood destruction, it was party-time in Wuhan. Pictures emerged of thousands of people enjoying pool parties and concerts. It made no sense until you realised there never was a ‘virus’ and the whole thing was a Cult set-up to transform human society out of one its major global strongholds – China.  How is it possible to deceive virtually the entire world population into believing there is a deadly virus when there is not even a ‘virus’ let alone a deadly one? It’s nothing like as diﬃcult as you would think and that’s clearly true because it happened.


Postscript: See end of book Postscript for more on the ‘Wuhan lab virus release’ story which the authorities and media were pushing heavily in the summer of 2021 to divert a ention from the truth that the ‘Covid virus’ is pure invention. CHAPTER FIVE

Thereis no ‘virus’

You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time Abraham Lincoln



The greatest form of mind control is repetition. The more you  repeat the same mantra of alleged ‘facts’ the more will accept them to be true. It becomes an ‘everyone knows that, mate’. If you can also censor any other version or alternative to your alleged ‘facts’ you are pre y much home and cooking.  By the start of 2020 the Cult owned the global mainstream media almost in its entirety to spew out its ‘Covid’ propaganda and ignore or discredit any other information and view. Cult-owned social media platforms in Cult-owned Silicon Valley were poised and ready to unleash a campaign of ferocious censorship to obliterate all but the oﬃcial narrative. To complete the circle many demands for censorship by Silicon Valley were led by the mainstream media as ‘journalists’ became full-out enforcers for the Cult both as propagandists and censors. Part of this has been the inﬂux of young people straight out of university who have become ‘journalists’ in signiﬁcant positions. They have no experience and a headful of programmed perceptions from their years at school and university at a time when today’s young are the most perceptually-targeted generations in known human history given the insidious impact of technology. They enter the media perceptually prepared and ready to repeat the narratives of the system that programmed them to repeat its narratives. The BBC has a truly pathetic ‘specialist disinformation reporter’ called Marianna Spring who ﬁts this bill perfectly. She is clueless about the world, how it works and what is really going on. Her role is to discredit anyone doing the job that a proper journalist would do and system-serving hacks like Spring wouldn’t dare to do or even see the need to do. They are too busy licking the arse of authority which can never be wrong and, in the case of the BBC propaganda programme, Panorama, contacting payments systems such as PayPal to have a donations page taken down for a ﬁlm company making documentaries questioning vaccines. Even the BBC soap opera EastEnders included a disgracefully biased scene in which an inarticulate white working class woman was made to look foolish for questioning the ‘vaccine’ while a well-spoken black man and Asian woman promoted the government narrative. It ticked every BBC box and the fact that the black and minority community was resisting the ‘vaccine’ had nothing to do with the way the scene was wri en. The BBC has become a disgusting tyrannical propaganda and censorship operation that should be defunded and disbanded and a free media take its place with a brief to stop censorship instead of demanding it. A BBC ‘interview’ with Gates goes something like: ‘Mr Gates, sir, if I can call you sir, would you like to tell our audience why you are such a great man, a wonderful humanitarian philanthropist, and why you should absolutely be allowed as a so ware salesman to decide health policy for approaching eight billion people? Thank you, sir, please sir.’ Propaganda programming has been incessant and merciless and when all you hear is the same story from the media, repeated by those around you who have only heard the same story, is it any wonder that people on a grand scale believe absolute mendacious garbage to be true? You are about to see, too, why this level of information control is necessary when the oﬃcial ‘Covid’ narrative is so nonsensical and unsupportable by the evidence.

Structure of Deceit The pyramid structure through which the ‘Covid’ hoax has been manifested is very simple and has to be to work. As few people as possible have to be involved with full knowledge of what they are doing – and why – or the real story would get out. At the top of the pyramid are the inner core of the Cult which controls Bill Gates who, in turn, controls the World Health Organization through his pivotal funding and his puppet Director-General mouthpiece, Tedros. Before he was appointed Tedros was chair of the Gates-founded Global Fund to ‘ﬁght against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria’, a board member of the Gates-funded ‘vaccine alliance’ GAVI, and on the board of another Gates-funded organisation. Gates owns him and picked him for a speciﬁc reason – Tedros is a crook and worse. ‘Dr’ Tedros (he’s not a medical doctor, the ﬁrst WHO chief not to be) was a member of the tyrannical Marxist government of Ethiopia for decades with all its human rights abuses. He has faced allegations of corruption and misappropriation of funds and was exposed three times for covering up cholera epidemics while Ethiopia’s health minister. Tedros appointed the mass-murdering genocidal Zimbabwe dictator Robert Mugabe as a WHO goodwill ambassador for public health which, as with Tedros, is like appointing a psychopath to run a peace and love campaign. The move was so ridiculous that he had to drop Mugabe in the face of widespread condemnation. American economist David Steinman, a Nobel peace prize nominee, lodged a complaint with the International Criminal Court in The Hague over alleged genocide by Tedros when he was Ethiopia’s foreign minister. Steinman says Tedros was a ‘crucial decision maker’ who directed the actions of Ethiopia’s security forces from 2013 to 2015 and one of three oﬃcials in charge when those security services embarked on the ‘killing’ and ‘torturing’ of Ethiopians. You can see where Tedros is coming from and it’s sobering to think that he has been the vehicle for Gates and the Cult to direct the global response to ‘Covid’. Think about that. A psychopathic Cult dictates to psychopath Gates who dictates to psychopath Tedros who dictates how countries of the world must respond to a ‘Covid virus’ never scientiﬁcally shown to exist. At the same time psychopathic Cult-owned Silicon Valley information giants like Google, YouTube, Facebook and Twi er announced very early on that they would give the Cult/Gates/Tedros/WHO version of the narrative free advertising and censor those who challenged their intelligence-insulting, mendacious story.  The next layer in the global ‘medical’ structure below the Cult, Gates and Tedros are the chief medical oﬃcers and science ‘advisers’ in each of the WHO member countries which means virtually all of them. Medical oﬃcers and arbiters of science (they’re not) then take the WHO policy and recommended responses and impose them on their country’s population while the political ‘leaders’ say they are deciding policy (they’re clearly not) by ‘following the science’ on the advice of the ‘experts’ – the same medical oﬃcers and science ‘advisers’ (dictators). In this way with the rarest of exceptions the entire world followed the same policy of lockdown, people distancing, masks and ‘vaccines’ dictated by the psychopathic Cult, psychopathic Gates and psychopathic Tedros who we are supposed to believe give a damn about the health of the world population they are seeking to enslave. That, amazingly, is all there is to it in terms of crucial decision-making. Medical staﬀ in each country then follow like sheep the dictates of the shepherds at the top of the national medical hierarchies – chief medical oﬃcers and science ‘advisers’ who themselves follow like sheep the shepherds of the World Health Organization and the Cult. Shepherds at the national level o en have major funding and other connections to Gates and his Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation which carefully hands out money like confe i at a wedding to control the entire global medical system from the WHO down.

Follow the money Christopher Whi y, Chief Medical Adviser to the UK Government at the centre of ‘virus’ policy, a senior adviser to the government’s Scientiﬁc Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), and Executive Board member of the World Health Organization, was gi ed a grant of $40 million by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for malaria research in Africa. The BBC described the unelected Whi y as ‘the oﬃcial who will probably have the greatest impact on our everyday lives of any individual policymaker in modern times’ and so it turned out. What Gates and Tedros have said Whi y has done like his equivalents around the world. Patrick Vallance, co-chair of SAGE and the government’s Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser, is a former executive of Big Pharma giant GlaxoSmithKline with its fundamental ﬁnancial and business connections to Bill Gates. In September, 2020, it was revealed that Vallance owned a deferred bonus of shares in GlaxoSmithKline worth £600,000 while the company was ‘developing’ a ‘Covid vaccine’. Move along now – nothing to see here – what could possibly be wrong with that? Imperial College in London, a major player in ‘Covid’ policy in Britain and elsewhere with its ‘Covid-19’ Response Team, is funded by Gates and has big connections to China while the now infamous Professor Neil Ferguson, the useless ‘computer modeller’ at Imperial College is also funded by Gates. Ferguson delivered the dramatically inaccurate excuse for the ﬁrst lockdowns (much more in the next chapter). The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) in the United States, another source of outrageously false ‘Covid’ computer models to justify lockdowns, is bankrolled by Gates who is a vehement promotor of lockdowns. America’s version of Whi y and Vallance, the again now infamous Anthony Fauci, has connections to ‘Covid vaccine’ maker Moderna as does Bill Gates through funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Fauci is director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), a major recipient of Gates money, and they are very close. Deborah Birx who was appointed White House Coronavirus Response Coordinator in February, 2020, is yet another with ties to Gates. Everywhere you look at the diﬀerent elements around the world behind the coordination and decision making of the ‘Covid’ hoax there is Bill Gates and his money. They include the World Health Organization; Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the United States; National Institutes of Health (NIH) of Anthony Fauci; Imperial College and Neil Ferguson; the London School of Hygiene where Chris Whi y worked; Regulatory agencies like the UK Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) which gave emergency approval for ‘Covid vaccines’; Wellcome Trust; GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance; the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI); Johns Hopkins University which has compiled the false ‘Covid’ ﬁgures; and the World Economic Forum. A Nationalﬁle.com article said:

Gates has a lot of pull in the medical world, he has a multi-million dollar relationship with Dr. Fauci, and Fauci originally took the Gates line supporting vaccines and casting doubt on [the drug hydroxychloroquine]. Coronavirus response team member Dr. Deborah Birx, appointed by former president Obama to serve as United States Global AIDS Coordinator, also sits on the board of a group that has received billions from Gates’ foundation, and Birx reportedly used a disputed Bill Gates-funded model for the White House’s Coronavirus effort. Gates is a big proponent for a population lockdown scenario for the Coronavirus outbreak.


 Another funder of Moderna is the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the technology-development arm of the Pentagon and one of the most sinister organisations on earth. DARPA had a major role with the CIA covert technology-funding operation In-Q-Tel in the development of Google and social media which is now at the centre of global censorship. Fauci and Gates are extremely close and openly admit to talking regularly about ‘Covid’ policy, but then why wouldn’t Gates have a seat at every national ‘Covid’ table a er his Foundation commi ed $1.75 billion to the ‘ﬁght against Covid-19’. When passed through our Orwellian Translation Unit this means that he has bought and paid for the Cult- driven ‘Covid’ response worldwide. Research the major ‘Covid’ response personnel in your own country and you will ﬁnd the same Gates funding and other connections again and again. Medical and science chiefs following World Health Organization ‘policy’ sit atop a medical hierarchy in their country of administrators, doctors and nursing staﬀ. These ‘subordinates’ are told they must work and behave in accordance with the policy delivered from the ‘top’ of the national ‘health’ pyramid which is largely the policy delivered by the WHO which is the policy delivered by Gates and the Cult. The whole ‘Covid’ narrative has been imposed on medical staﬀ by a climate of fear although great numbers don’t even need that to comply. They do so through breathtaking levels of ignorance and include doctors who go through life simply repeating what Big Pharma and their hierarchical masters tell them to say and believe. No wonder Big Pharma ‘medicine’ is one of the biggest killers on Planet Earth.  The same top-down system of intimidation operates with regard to the Cult Big Pharma cartel which also dictates policy through national and global medical systems in this way. The Cult and Big Pharma agendas are the same because the former controls and owns the la er. ‘Health’ administrators, doctors, and nursing staﬀ are told to support and parrot the dictated policy or they will face consequences which can include being ﬁred. How sad it’s been to see medical staﬀ meekly repeating and imposing Cult policy without question and most of those who can see through the deceit are only willing to speak anonymously oﬀ the record. They know what will happen if their identity is known. This has le the courageous few to expose the lies about the ‘virus’, face masks, overwhelmed hospitals that aren’t, and the dangers of the ‘vaccine’ that isn’t a vaccine. When these medical professionals and scientists, some renowned in their ﬁeld, have taken to the Internet to expose the truth their articles, comments and videos have been deleted by Cult-owned Facebook, Twi er and YouTube. What a real head-shaker to see YouTube videos with leading world scientists and highly qualiﬁed medical specialists with an added link underneath to the notorious Cult propaganda website Wikipedia to ﬁnd the ‘facts’ about the same subject.

HIV – the ‘Covid’ trial-run I’ll give you an example of the consequences for health and truth that come from censorship and unquestioning belief in oﬃcial narratives. The story was told by PCR inventor Kary Mullis in his book Dancing Naked in the Mind Field. He said that in 1984 he accepted as just another scientiﬁc fact that Luc Montagnier of France’s Pasteur Institute and Robert Gallo of America’s National Institutes of Health had independently discovered that a ‘retrovirus’ dubbed HIV (human immunodeﬁciency virus) caused AIDS. They were, a er all, Mullis writes, specialists in retroviruses. This is how the medical and science pyramids work. Something is announced or assumed and then becomes an everybody-knows-that purely through repetition of the assumption as if it is fact. Complete crap becomes accepted truth with no supporting evidence and only repetition of the crap. This is how a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist became the ‘virus’ that changed the world. The HIV-AIDS fairy story became a multi- billion pound industry and the media poured out propaganda terrifying the world about the deadly HIV ‘virus’ that caused the lethal AIDS. By then Mullis was working at a lab in Santa Monica, California, to detect retroviruses with his PCR test in blood donations received by the Red Cross. In doing so he asked a virologist where he could ﬁnd a reference for HIV being the cause of AIDS. ‘You don’t need a reference,’ the virologist said … ‘Everybody knows it.’ Mullis said he wanted to quote a reference in the report he was doing and he said he felt a li le funny about not knowing the source of such an important discovery when everyone else seemed to. The virologist suggested he cite a report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on morbidity and mortality. Mullis read the report, but it only said that an organism had been identiﬁed and did not say how. The report did not identify the original scientiﬁc work. Physicians, however, assumed (key recurring theme) that if the CDC was convinced that HIV caused AIDS then proof must exist. Mullis continues:

I did computer searches. Neither Montagnier, Gallo, nor anyone else had published papers describing experiments which led to the conclusion that HIV probably caused AIDS. I read the papers in Science for which they had become well known as AIDS doctors, but all they had said there was that they had found evidence of a past infection by something which was probably HIV in some AIDS patients.

They found antibodies. Antibodies to viruses had always been considered evidence of past disease, not present disease. Antibodies signaled that the virus had been defeated. The patient had saved himself. There was no indication in these papers that this virus caused a disease. They didn’t show that everybody with the antibodies had the disease. In fact they found some healthy people with antibodies. Mullis asked why their work had been published if Montagnier and Gallo hadn’t really found this evidence, and why had they been ﬁghting so hard to get credit for the discovery? He says he was hesitant to write ‘HIV is the probable cause of AIDS’ until he found published evidence to support that. ‘Tens of thousands of scientists and researchers were spending billions of dollars a year doing research based on this idea,’ Mullis writes. ‘The reason had to be there somewhere; otherwise these people would not have allowed their research to se le into one narrow channel of investigation.’ He said he lectured about PCR at numerous meetings where people were always talking about HIV and he asked them how they knew that HIV was the cause of AIDS:

Everyone said something. Everyone had the answer at home, in the office, in some drawer. They all knew, and they would send me the papers as soon as they got back. But I never got any papers. Nobody ever sent me the news about how AIDS was caused by HIV.


Eventually Mullis was able to ask Montagnier himself about the reference proof when he lectured in San Diego at the grand opening of the University of California AIDS Research Center. Mullis says this was the last time he would ask his question without showing anger. Montagnier said he should reference the CDC report. ‘I read it’, Mullis said, and it didn’t answer the question. ‘If Montagnier didn’t know the answer who the hell did?’ Then one night Mullis was driving when an interview came on National Public Radio with Peter Duesberg, a prominent virologist at Berkeley and a California Scientist of the Year. Mullis says he ﬁnally understood why he could not ﬁnd references that connected HIV to AIDS – there weren’t any! No one had ever proved that HIV causes AIDS even though it had spawned a multi-billion pound global industry and the media was repeating this as fact every day in their articles and broadcasts terrifying the shit out of people about AIDS and giving the impression that a positive test for HIV (see ‘Covid’) was a death sentence. Duesberg was a threat to the AIDS gravy train and the agenda that underpinned it. He was therefore abused and castigated a er he told the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences there was no good evidence implicating the new ‘virus’. Editors rejected his manuscripts and his research funds were deleted. Mullis points out that the CDC has deﬁned AIDS as one of more than 30 diseases if accompanied by a positive result on a test that detects antibodies to HIV; but those same diseases are not deﬁned as AIDS cases when antibodies are not detected:

If an HIV-positive woman develops uterine cancer, for example, she is considered to have AIDS. If she is not HIV positive, she simply has uterine cancer. An HIV-positive man with tuberculosis has AIDS; if he tests negative he simply has tuberculosis. If he lives in Kenya or Colombia, where the test for HIV antibodies is too expensive, he is simply presumed to have the antibodies and therefore AIDS, and therefore he can be treated in the World Health Organization’s clinic. It’s the only medical help available in some places. And it’s free, because the countries that support WHO are worried about AIDS.


Mullis accuses the CDC of continually adding new diseases (see ever more ‘Covid symptoms’) to the grand AIDS deﬁnition and of virtually doctoring the books to make it appear as if the disease continued to spread. He cites how in 1993 the CDC enormously broadened its AIDS deﬁnition and county health authorities were delighted because they received $2,500 per year from the Federal government for every reported AIDS case. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just described, via Kary Mullis, the ‘Covid pandemic’ of 2020 and beyond. Every element is the same and it’s been pulled oﬀ in the same way by the same networks.

The ‘Covid virus’ exists? Okay – prove it. Er … still waiting What Kary Mullis described with regard to ‘HIV’ has been repeated with ‘Covid’. A claim is made that a new, or ‘novel’, infection has been found and the entire medical system of the world repeats that as fact exactly as they did with HIV and AIDS. No one in the mainstream asks rather relevant questions such as ‘How do you know?’ and ‘Where is your proof?’ The SARS-Cov-2 ‘virus’ and the ‘Covid-19 disease’ became an overnight ‘everybody-knows-that’. The origin could be debated and mulled over, but what you could not suggest was that ‘SARS-Cov-2’ didn’t exist. That would be ridiculous. ‘Everybody knows’ the ‘virus’ exists. Well, I didn’t for one along with American proper doctors like Andrew Kaufman and Tom Cowan and long-time American proper journalist Jon Rappaport. We dared to pursue the obvious and simple question: ‘Where’s the evidence?’ The overwhelming majority in medicine, journalism and the general public did not think to ask that. A er all, everyone knew there was a new ‘virus’. Everyone was saying so and I heard it on the BBC. Some would eventually argue that the ‘deadly virus’ was nothing like as deadly as claimed, but few would venture into the realms of its very existence. Had they done so they would have found that the evidence for that claim had gone AWOL as with HIV causes AIDS. In fact, not even that. For something to go AWOL it has to exist in the ﬁrst place and scientiﬁc proof for a ‘SARS-Cov-2’ can be ﬁled under nothing, nowhere and zilch.  Dr Andrew Kaufman is a board-certiﬁed forensic psychiatrist in New York State, a Doctor of Medicine and former Assistant Professor and Medical Director of Psychiatry at SUNY Upstate Medical University, and Medical Instructor of Hematology and Oncology at the Medical School of South Carolina. He also studied biology at the Massachuse s Institute of Technology (MIT) and trained in Psychiatry at Duke University. Kaufman is retired from allopathic medicine, but remains a consultant and educator on natural healing, I saw a video of his very early on in the ‘Covid’ hoax in which he questioned claims about the ‘virus’ in the absence of any supporting evidence and with plenty pointing the other way. I did everything I could to circulate his work which I felt was asking the pivotal questions that needed an answer. I can recommend an excellent pull-together interview he did with the website The Last Vagabond entitled Dr Andrew Kaufman: Virus Isolation, Terrain Theory and Covid-19 and his website is andrewkaufmanmd.com. Kaufman is not only a forensic psychiatrist; he is forensic in all that he does. He always reads original scientiﬁc papers, experiments and studies instead of second-third-fourth-hand reports about the ‘virus’ in the media which are repeating the repeated repetition of the narrative. When he did so with the original Chinese ‘virus’ papers Kaufman realised that there was no evidence of a ‘SARS-Cov-2’. They had never – from the start – shown it to exist and every repeat of this claim worldwide was based on the accepted existence of proof that was nowhere to be found – see Kary Mullis and HIV. Here we go again.

Let’s postulate Kaufman discovered that the Chinese authorities immediately concluded that the cause of an illness that broke out among about 200 initial patients in Wuhan was a ‘new virus’ when there were no grounds to make that conclusion. The alleged ‘virus’ was not isolated from other genetic material in their samples and then shown through a system known as Koch’s postulates to be the causative agent of the illness. The world was told that the SARS-Cov-2 ‘virus’ caused a disease they called ‘Covid-19’ which had ‘ﬂu-like’ symptoms and could lead to respiratory problems and pneumonia. If it wasn’t so tragic it would almost be funny. ‘Flu-like’ symptoms’? Pneumonia? Respiratory disease? What in CHINA and particularly in Wuhan, one of the most polluted cities in the world with a resulting epidemic of respiratory disease?? Three hundred thousand people get pneumonia in China every year and there are nearly a billion cases worldwide of ‘ﬂu-like symptoms’. These have a whole range of causes – including pollution in Wuhan – but no other possibility was credibly considered in late 2019 when the world was told there was a new and deadly ‘virus’. The global prevalence of pneumonia and ‘ﬂu-like systems’ gave the Cult networks unlimited potential to re- diagnose these other causes as the mythical ‘Covid-19’ and that is what they did from the very start. Kaufman revealed how Chinese medical and science authorities (all subordinates to the Cult-owned communist government) took genetic material from the lungs of only a few of the ﬁrst patients. The material contained their own cells, bacteria, fungi and other microorganisms living in their bodies. The only way you could prove the existence of the ‘virus’ and its responsibility for the alleged ‘Covid-19’ was to isolate the virus from all the other material – a process also known as ‘puriﬁcation’ – and then follow the postulates sequence developed in the late 19th century by German physician and bacteriologist Robert Koch which became the ‘gold standard’ for connecting an alleged causation agent to a disease:

1. The microorganism (bacteria, fungus, virus, etc.) must be present in every case of the disease and all patients must have the same symptoms. It must also not be present in healthy individuals.

2. The microorganism must be isolated from the host with the disease. If the microorganism is a bacteria or fungus it must be grown in a pure culture. If it is a virus, it must be puriﬁed (i.e. containing no other material except the virus particles) from a clinical sample.

3. The speciﬁc disease, with all of its characteristics, must be reproduced when the infectious agent (the puriﬁed virus or a pure culture of bacteria or fungi) is inoculated into a healthy, susceptible host.

4. The microorganism must be recoverable from the experimentally infected host as in step 2.


Not one of these criteria has been met in the case of ‘SARS-Cov-2’ and ‘Covid-19’. Not ONE. EVER. Robert Koch refers to bacteria and not viruses. What are called ‘viral particles’ are so minute (hence masks are useless by any deﬁnition) that they could only be seen a er the invention of the electron microscope in the 1930s and can still only be observed through that means. American bacteriologist and virologist Thomas Milton Rivers, the so-called ‘Father of Modern Virology’ who was very signiﬁcantly director of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in the 1930s, developed a less stringent version of Koch’s postulates to identify ‘virus’ causation known as ‘Rivers criteria’. ‘Covid’ did not pass that process either. Some even doubt whether any ‘virus’ can be isolated from other particles containing genetic material in the Koch method. Freedom of Information requests in many countries asking for scientiﬁc proof that the ‘Covid virus’ has been puriﬁed and isolated and shown to exist have all come back with a ‘we don’t have that’ and when this happened with a request to the UK Department of Health they added this comment: However, outside of the scope of the [Freedom of Information Act] and on a discretionary basis, the following information has been advised to us, which may be of interest. Most infectious diseases are caused by viruses, bacteria or fungi. Some bacteria or fungi have the capacity to grow on their own in isolation, for example in colonies on a petri dish. Viruses are different in that they are what we call ‘obligate pathogens’ – that is, they cannot survive or reproduce without infecting a host ...

… For some diseases, it is possible to establish causation between a microorganism and a disease by isolating the pathogen from a patient, growing it in pure culture and reintroducing it to a healthy organism. These are known as ‘Koch’s postulates’ and were developed in 1882. However, as our understanding of disease and different disease-causing agents has advanced, these are no longer the method for determining causation [Andrew Kaufman asks why in that case are there two published articles falsely claiming to satisfy Koch’s postulates].

It has long been known that viral diseases cannot be identified in this way as viruses cannot be grown in ‘pure culture’. When a patient is tested for a viral illness, this is normally done by looking for the presence of antigens, or viral genetic code in a host with molecular biology techniques [Kaufman asks how you could know the origin of these chemicals without having a pure culture for comparison].

For the record ‘antigens’ are deﬁned so:

Invading microorganisms have antigens on their surface that the human body can recognise as being foreign – meaning not belonging to it. When the body recognises a foreign antigen, lymphocytes (white blood cells) produce antibodies, which are complementary in shape to the antigen.


Notwithstanding that this is open to question in relation to ‘SARS- Cov-2’ the presence of ‘antibodies’ can have many causes and they are found in people that are perfectly well. Kary Mullis said: ‘Antibodies … had always been considered evidence of past disease, not present disease.’

‘Covid’ really is acomputer ‘virus’ Where the UK Department of Health statement says ‘viruses’ are now ‘diagnosed’ through a ‘viral genetic code in a host with molecular biology techniques’, they mean … the PCR test which its inventor said cannot test for infectious disease. They have no credible method of connecting a ‘virus’ to a disease and we will see that there is no scientiﬁc proof that any ‘virus’ causes any disease or there is any such thing as a ‘virus’ in the way that it is described. Tenacious Canadian researcher Christine Massey and her team made some 40 Freedom of Information requests to national public health agencies in diﬀerent countries asking for proof that SARS-CoV-2 has been isolated and not one of them could supply that information. Massey said of her request in Canada: ‘Freedom of Information reveals Public Health Agency of Canada has no record of ‘SARS- COV-2’ isolation performed by anyone, anywhere, ever.’ If you accept the comment from the UK Department of Health it’s because they can’t isolate a ‘virus’. Even so many ‘science’ papers claimed to have isolated the ‘Covid virus’ until they were questioned and had to admit they hadn’t. A reply from the Robert Koch Institute in Germany was typical: ‘I am not aware of a paper which puriﬁed isolated SARS-CoV-2.’ So what the hell was Christian Drosten and his gang using to design the ‘Covid’ testing protocol that has produced all the illusory Covid’ cases and ‘Covid’ deaths when the head of the Chinese version of the CDC admi ed there was a problem right from the start in that the ‘virus’ had never been isolated/puriﬁed? Breathe deeply: What they are calling ‘Covid’ is actually created by a computer program i.e. they made it up – er, that’s it. They took lung ﬂuid, with many sources of genetic material, from one single person alleged to be infected with Covid-19 by a PCR test which they claimed, without clear evidence, contained a ‘virus’. They used several computer programs to create a model of a theoretical virus genome sequence from more than ﬁ y-six million small sequences of RNA, each of an unknown source, assembling them like a puzzle with no known solution. The computer ﬁlled in the gaps with sequences from bits in the gene bank to make it look like a bat SARS-like coronavirus! A wave of the magic wand and poof, an in silico (computer-generated) genome, a scientiﬁc fantasy, was created. UK health researcher Dr Kevin Corbe made the same point with this analogy:

… It’s like giving you a few bones and saying that’s your fish. It could be any fish. Not even a skeleton. Here’s a few fragments of bones. That’s your fish … It’s all from gene bank and the bits of the virus sequence that weren’t there they made up.

They synthetically created them to fill in the blanks. That’s what genetics is; it’s a code. So it’s ABBBCCDDD and you’re missing some what you think is EEE so you put it in. It’s all synthetic. You just manufacture the bits that are missing. This is the end result of the geneticization of virology. This is basically a computer virus.


 Further conﬁrmation came in an email exchange between British citizen journalist Frances Leader and the government’s Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (the Gates-funded MHRA) which gave emergency permission for untested ‘Covid vaccines’ to be used. The agency admi ed that the ‘vaccine’ is not based on an isolated ‘virus’, but comes from a computer-generated model. Frances Leader was naturally banned from Cult-owned fascist Twi er for making this exchange public. The process of creating computer- generated alleged ‘viruses’ is called ‘in silico’ or ‘in silicon’ – computer chips – and the term ‘in silico’ is believed to originate with biological experiments using only a computer in 1989. ‘Vaccines’ involved with ‘Covid’ are also produced ‘in silico’ or by computer not a natural process. If the original ‘virus’ is nothing more than a made-up computer model how can there be ‘new variants’ of something that never existed in the ﬁrst place? They are not new ‘variants’; they are new computer models only minutely diﬀerent to the original program and designed to further terrify the population into having the ‘vaccine’ and submi ing to fascism. You want a ‘new variant’? Click, click, enter – there you go. Tell the medical profession that you have discovered a ‘South African variant’, ‘UK variants’ or a ‘Brazilian variant’ and in the usual HIV-causes-AIDS manner they will unquestioningly repeat it with no evidence whatsoever to support these claims. They will go on television and warn about the dangers of ‘new variants’ while doing nothing more than repeating what they have been told to be true and knowing that any deviation from that would be career suicide. Big-time insiders will know it’s a hoax, but much of the medical community is clueless about the way they are being played and themselves play the public without even being aware they are doing so. What an interesting ‘coincidence’ that AstraZeneca and Oxford University were conducting ‘Covid vaccine trials’ in the three countries – the UK, South Africa and Brazil – where the ﬁrst three ‘variants’ were claimed to have ‘broken out’. Here’s your ‘virus’ – it’s a unicorn Dr Andrew Kaufman presented a brilliant analysis describing how the ‘virus’ was imagined into fake existence when he dissected an article published by Nature and wri en by 19 authors detailing alleged ‘sequencing of a complete viral genome’ of the ‘new SARS- CoV-2 virus’. This computer-modelled in silico genome was used as a template for all subsequent genome sequencing experiments that resulted in the so-called variants which he said now number more than 6,000. The fake genome was constructed from more than 56 million individual short strands of RNA. Those li le pieces were assembled into longer pieces by ﬁnding areas of overlapping sequences. The computer programs created over two million possible combinations from which the authors simply chose the longest one. They then compared this to a ‘bat virus’ and the computer ‘alignment’ rearranged the sequence and ﬁlled in the gaps! They called this computer-generated abomination the ‘complete genome’. Dr Tom Cowan, a fellow medical author and collaborator with Kaufman, said such computer-generation constitutes scientiﬁc fraud and he makes this superb analogy:

Here is an equivalency: A group of researchers claim to have found a unicorn because they found a piece of a hoof, a hair from a tail, and a snippet of a horn. They then add that information into a computer and program it to re-create the unicorn, and they then claim this computer re-creation is the real unicorn. Of course, they had never actually seen a unicorn so could not possibly have examined its genetic makeup to compare their samples with the actual unicorn’s hair, hooves and horn.

The researchers claim they decided which is the real genome of SARS-CoV-2 by ‘consensus’, sort of like a vote. Again, different computer programs will come up with different versions of the imaginary ‘unicorn’, so they come together as a group and decide which is the real imaginary unicorn.


This is how the ‘virus’ that has transformed the world was brought into fraudulent ‘existence’. Extraordinary, yes, but as the Nazis said the bigger the lie the more will believe it. Cowan, however, wasn’t ﬁnished and he went on to identify what he called the real blockbuster in the paper. He quotes this section from a paper wri en by virologists and published by the CDC and then explains what it means:

Therefore, we examined the capacity of SARS-CoV-2 to infect and replicate in several common primate and human cell lines, including human adenocarcinoma cells (A549), human liver cells (HUH 7.0), and human embryonic kidney cells (HEK-293T). In addition to Vero E6 and Vero CCL81 cells. ... Each cell line was inoculated at high multiplicity of infection and examined 24h post-infection.

No CPE was observed in any of the cell lines except in Vero cells, which grew to greater than 10 to the 7th power at 24 h post-infection. In contrast, HUH 7.0 and 293T showed only modest viral replication, and A549 cells were incompatible with SARS CoV-2 infection.


Cowan explains that when virologists a empt to prove infection they have three possible ‘hosts’ or models on which they can test. The ﬁrst was humans. Exposure to humans was generally not done for ethical reasons and has never been done with SARS-CoV-2 or any coronavirus. The second possible host was animals. Cowan said that forge ing for a moment that they never actually use puriﬁed virus when exposing animals they do use solutions that they claim contain the virus. Exposure to animals has been done with SARS-CoV-2 in an experiment involving mice and this is what they found: None of the wild (normal) mice got sick. In a group of genetically-modiﬁed mice, a statistically insigniﬁcant number lost weight and had slightly bristled fur, but they experienced nothing like the illness called ‘Covid-19’. Cowan said the third method – the one they mostly rely on – is to inoculate solutions they say contain the virus onto a variety of tissue cultures. This process had never been shown to kill tissue unless the sample material was starved of nutrients and poisoned as part of the process. Yes, incredibly, in tissue experiments designed to show the ‘virus’ is responsible for killing the tissue they starve the tissue of nutrients and add toxic drugs including antibiotics and they do not have control studies to see if it’s the starvation and poisoning that is degrading the tissue rather than the ‘virus’ they allege to be in there somewhere. You want me to pinch you? Yep, I understand. Tom Cowan said this about the whole nonsensical farce as he explains what that quote from the CDC paper really means: The shocking thing about the above quote is that using their own methods, the virologists found that solutions containing SARS-CoV-2 – even in high amounts – were NOT, I repeat NOT, infective to any of the three human tissue cultures they tested. In plain English, this means they proved, on their terms, that this ‘new coronavirus’ is not infectious to human beings. It is ONLY infective to monkey kidney cells, and only then when you add two potent drugs (gentamicin and amphotericin), known to be toxic to kidneys, to the mix.

My friends, read this again and again. These virologists, published by the CDC, performed a clear proof, on their terms, showing that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is harmless to human beings. That is the only possible conclusion, but, unfortunately, this result is not even mentioned in their conclusion. They simply say they can provide virus stocks cultured only on monkey Vero cells, thanks for coming.


 Cowan concluded: ‘If people really understood how this “science” was done, I would hope they would storm the gates and demand honesty, transparency and truth.’ Dr Michael Yeadon, former Vice President and Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser at drug giant Pﬁzer has been a vocal critic of the ‘Covid vaccine’ and its potential for multiple harm. He said in an interview in April, 2021, that ‘not one [vaccine] has the virus. He was asked why vaccines normally using a ‘dead’ version of a disease to activate the immune system were not used for ‘Covid’ and instead we had the synthetic methods of the ‘mRNA Covid vaccine’. Yeadon said that to do the former ‘you’d have to have some of [the virus] wouldn’t you?’ He added: ‘No-one’s got any – seriously.’ Yeadon said that surely they couldn’t have fooled the whole world for a year without having a virus, ‘but oddly enough ask around – no one’s got it’. He didn’t know why with all the ‘great labs’ around the world that the virus had not been isolated – ‘Maybe they’ve been too busy running bad PCR tests and vaccines that people don’t need.’ What is today called ‘science’ is not ‘science’ at all. Science is no longer what is, but whatever people can be manipulated to believe that it is. Real science has been hĳacked by the Cult to dispense and produce the ‘expert scientists’ and contentions that suit the agenda of the Cult. How big-time this has happened with the ‘Covid’ hoax which is entirely based on fake science delivered by fake ‘scientists’ and fake ‘doctors’. The human-caused climate change hoax is also entirely based on fake science delivered by fake ‘scientists’ and fake ‘climate experts’. In both cases real scientists, climate experts and doctors have their views suppressed and deleted by the Cult-owned science establishment, media and Silicon Valley. This is the ‘science’ that politicians claim to be ‘following’ and a common denominator of ‘Covid’ and climate are Cult psychopaths Bill Gates and his mate Klaus Schwab at the Gates- funded World Economic Forum. But, don’t worry, it’s all just a coincidence and absolutely nothing to worry about. Zzzzzzzz.

What is a ‘virus’ REALLY? Dr Tom Cowan is one of many contesting the very existence of viruses let alone that they cause disease. This is understandable when there is no scientiﬁc evidence for a disease-causing ‘virus’. German virologist Dr Stefan Lanka won a landmark case in 2017 in the German Supreme Court over his contention that there is no such thing as a measles virus. He had oﬀered a big prize for anyone who could prove there is and Lanka won his case when someone sought to claim the money. There is currently a prize of more than 225,000 euros on oﬀer from an Isolate Truth Fund for anyone who can prove the isolation of SARS-CoV-2 and its genetic substance. Lanka wrote in an article headed ‘The Misconception Called Virus’ that scientists think a ‘virus’ is causing tissue to become diseased and degraded when in fact it is the processes they are using which do that – not a ‘virus’. Lanka has done an important job in making this point clear as Cowan did in his analysis of the CDC paper. Lanka says that all claims about viruses as disease-causing pathogens are wrong and based on ‘easily recognisable, understandable and veriﬁable misinterpretations.’ Scientists believed they were working with ‘viruses’ in their laboratories when they were really working with ‘typical particles of speciﬁc dying tissues or cells …’ Lanka said that the tissue decaying process claimed to be caused by a ‘virus’ still happens when no alleged ‘virus’ is involved. It’s the process that does the damage and not a ‘virus’. The genetic sample is deprived of nutrients, removed from its energy supply through removal from the body and then doused in toxic antibiotics to remove any bacteria. He conﬁrms again that establishment scientists do not (pinch me) conduct control experiments to see if this is the case and if they did they would see the claims that ‘viruses’ are doing the damage is nonsense. He adds that during the measles ‘virus’ court case he commissioned an independent laboratory to perform just such a control experiment and the result was that the tissues and cells died in the exact same way as with alleged ‘infected’ material. This is supported by a gathering number of scientists, doctors and researchers who reject what is called ‘germ theory’ or the belief in the body being infected by contagious sources emi ed by other people. Researchers Dawn Lester and David Parker take the same stance in their highly-detailed and sourced book What Really Makes You Ill – Why everything you thought you knew about disease is wrong which was recommended to me by a number of medical professionals genuinely seeking the truth. Lester and Parker say there is no provable scientiﬁc evidence to show that a ‘virus’ can be transmi ed between people or people and animals or animals and people:

The definition also claims that viruses are the cause of many diseases, as if this has been definitively proven. But this is not the case; there is no original scientific evidence that definitively demonstrates that any virus is the cause of any disease. The burden of proof for any theory lies with those who proposed it; but none of the existing documents provides ‘proof’ that supports the claim that ‘viruses’ are pathogens.


 Dr Tom Cowan employs one of his clever analogies to describe the process by which a ‘virus’ is named as the culprit for a disease when what is called a ‘virus’ is only material released by cells detoxing themselves from inﬁltration by chemical or radiation poisoning. The tidal wave of technologically-generated radiation in the ‘smart’ modern world plus all the toxic food and drink are causing this to happen more than ever. Deluded ‘scientists’ misread this as a gathering impact of what they wrongly label ‘viruses’.

Paper can infect houses Cowan said in an article for davidicke.com – with his tongue only mildly in his cheek – that he believed he had made a tremendous discovery that may revolutionise science. He had discovered that small bits of paper are alive, ‘well alive-ish’, can ‘infect’ houses, and then reproduce themselves inside the house. The result was that this explosion of growth in the paper inside the house causes the house to explode, blowing it to smithereens. His evidence for this new theory is that in the past months he had carefully examined many of the houses in his neighbourhood and found almost no scraps of paper on the lawns and surrounds of the house. There was an occasional stray label, but nothing more. Then he would return to these same houses a week or so later and with a few, not all of them, particularly the old and decrepit ones, he found to his shock and surprise they were li ered with stray bits of paper. He knew then that the paper had infected these houses, made copies of itself, and blew up the house. A young boy on a bicycle at one of the sites told him he had seen a demolition crew using dynamite to explode the house the previous week, but Cowan dismissed this as the idle thoughts of silly boys because ‘I was on to something big’. He was on to how ‘scientists’ mistake genetic material in the detoxifying process for something they call a ‘virus’. Cowan said of his house and paper story:

If this sounds crazy to you, it’s because it should. This scenario is obviously nuts. But consider this admittedly embellished, for effect, current viral theory that all scientists, medical doctors and virologists currently believe.


He takes the example of the ‘novel SARS-Cov2’ virus to prove the point. First they take someone with an undeﬁned illness called ‘Covid-19’ and don’t even a empt to ﬁnd any virus in their sputum. Never mind the scientists still describe how this ‘virus’, which they have not located a aches to a cell receptor, injects its genetic material, in ‘Covid’s’ case, RNA, into the cell. The RNA once inserted exploits the cell to reproduce itself and makes ‘thousands, nay millions, of copies of itself … Then it emerges victorious to claim its next victim’: If you were to look in the scientific literature for proof, actual scientific proof, that uniform SARS-CoV2 viruses have been properly isolated from the sputum of a sick person, that actual spike proteins could be seen protruding from the virus (which has not been found), you would find that such evidence doesn’t exist.

If you go looking in the published scientific literature for actual pictures, proof, that these spike proteins or any viral proteins are ever attached to any receptor embedded in any cell membrane, you would also find that no such evidence exists. If you were to look for a video or documented evidence of the intact virus injecting its genetic material into the body of the cell, reproducing itself and then emerging victorious by budding off the cell membrane, you would find that no such evidence exists.

The closest thing you would find is electron micrograph pictures of cellular particles, possibly attached to cell debris, both of which to be seen were stained by heavy metals, a process that completely distorts their architecture within the living organism. This is like finding bits of paper stuck to the blown-up bricks, thereby proving the paper emerged by taking pieces of the bricks on its way out.


The Enders baloney Cowan describes the ‘Covid’ story as being just as make-believe as his paper story and he charts back this fantasy to a Nobel Prize winner called John Enders (1897-1985), an American biomedical scientist who has been dubbed ‘The Father of Modern Vaccines’. Enders is claimed to have ‘discovered’ the process of the viral culture which ‘proved’ that a ‘virus’ caused measles. Cowan explains how Enders did this ‘by using the EXACT same procedure that has been followed by every virologist to ﬁnd and characterize every new virus since 1954’. Enders took throat swabs from children with measles and immersed them in 2ml of milk. Penicillin (100u/ml) and the antibiotic streptomycin (50,g/ml) were added and the whole mix was centrifuged – rotated at high speed to separate large cellular debris from small particles and molecules as with milk and cream, for example. Cowan says that if the aim is to ﬁnd li le particles of genetic material (‘viruses’) in the snot from children with measles it would seem that the last thing you would do is mix the snot with other material – milk –that also has genetic material. ‘How are you ever going to know whether whatever you found came from the snot or the milk?’ He points out that streptomycin is a ‘nephrotoxic’ or poisonous-to-the-kidney drug. You will see the relevance of that shortly. Cowan says that it gets worse, much worse, when Enders describes the culture medium upon which the virus ‘grows’: ‘The culture medium consisted of bovine amniotic ﬂuid (90%), beef embryo extract (5%), horse serum (5%), antibiotics and phenol red as an indicator of cell metabolism.’ Cowan asks incredulously: ‘Did he just say that the culture medium also contained ﬂuids and tissues that are themselves rich sources of genetic material?’ The genetic cocktail, or ‘medium’, is inoculated onto tissue and cells from rhesus monkey kidney tissue. This is where the importance of streptomycin comes in and currently-used antimicrobials and other drugs that are poisonous to kidneys and used in ALL modern viral cultures (e.g. gentamicin, streptomycin, and amphotericin). Cowan asks: ‘How are you ever going to know from this witch’s brew where any genetic material comes from as we now have ﬁve diﬀerent sources of rich genetic material in our mix?’ Remember, he says, that all genetic material, whether from monkey kidney tissues, bovine serum, milk, etc., is made from the exact same components. The same central question returns: ‘How are you possibly going to know that it was the virus that killed the kidney tissue and not the toxic antibiotic and starvation rations on which you are growing the tissue?’ John Enders answered the question himself – you can’t:

A second agent was obtained from an uninoculated culture of monkey kidney cells. The cytopathic changes [death of the cells] it induced in the unstained preparations could not be distinguished with confidence from the viruses isolated from measles.


 The death of the cells (‘cytopathic changes’) happened in exactly the same manner, whether they inoculated the kidney tissue with the measles snot or not, Cowan says. ‘This is evidence that the destruction of the tissue, the very proof of viral causation of illness, was not caused by anything in the snot because they saw the same destructive eﬀect when the snot was not even used … the cytopathic, i.e., cell-killing, changes come from the process of the culture itself, not from any virus in any snot, period.’ Enders quotes in his 1957 paper a virologist called Ruckle as reporting similar ﬁndings ‘and in addition has isolated an agent from monkey kidney tissue that is so far indistinguishable from human measles virus’. In other words, Cowan says, these particles called ‘measles viruses’ are simply and clearly breakdown products of the starved and poisoned tissue. For measles ‘virus’ see all ‘viruses’ including the so-called ‘Covid virus’. Enders, the ‘Father of Modern Vaccines’, also said:

There is a potential risk in employing cultures of primate cells for the production of vaccines composed of attenuated virus, since the presence of other agents possibly latent in primate tissues cannot be definitely excluded by any known method.


 Cowan further quotes from a paper published in the journal Viruses in May, 2020, while the ‘Covid pandemic’ was well underway in the media if not in reality. ‘EVs’ here refers to particles of genetic debris from our own tissues, such as exosomes of which more in a moment: ‘The remarkable resemblance between EVs and viruses has caused quite a few problems in the studies focused on the analysis of EVs released during viral infections.’ Later the paper adds that to date a reliable method that can actually guarantee a complete separation (of EVs from viruses) DOES NOT EXIST. This was published at a time when a fairy tale ‘virus’ was claimed in total certainty to be causing a fairy tale ‘viral disease’ called ‘Covid-19’ – a fairy tale that was already well on the way to transforming human society in the image that the Cult has worked to achieve for so long. Cowan concludes his article:

To summarize, there is no scientific evidence that pathogenic viruses exist. What we think of as ‘viruses’ are simply the normal breakdown products of dead and dying tissues and cells. When we are well, we make fewer of these particles; when we are starved, poisoned, suffocated by wearing masks, or afraid, we make more.

There is no engineered virus circulating and making people sick. People in laboratories all over the world are making genetically modified products to make people sick. These are called vaccines. There is no virome, no ‘ecosystem’ of viruses, viruses are not 8%, 50% or 100 % of our genetic material. These are all simply erroneous ideas based on the misconception called a virus.


What is ‘Covid’? Load of bollocks The background described here by Cowan and Lanka was emphasised in the ﬁrst video presentation that I saw by Dr Andrew Kaufman when he asked whether the ‘Covid virus’ was in truth a natural defence mechanism of the body called ‘exosomes’. These are released by cells when in states of toxicity – see the same themes returning over and over. They are released ever more profusely as chemical and radiation toxicity increases and think of the potential eﬀect therefore of 5G alone as its destructive frequencies infest the human energetic information ﬁeld with a gathering pace (5G went online in Wuhan in 2019 as the ‘virus’ emerged). I’ll have more about this later. Exosomes transmit a warning to the rest of the body that ‘Houston, we have a problem’. Kaufman presented images of exosomes and compared them with ‘Covid’ under an electron microscope and the similarity was remarkable. They both a ach to the same cell receptors (claimed in the case of ‘Covid’), contain the same genetic material in the form of RNA or ribonucleic acid, and both are found in ‘viral cell cultures’ with damaged or dying cells. James Hildreth MD, President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of the Meharry Medical College at Johns Hopkins, said: ‘The virus is fully an exosome in every sense of the word.’ Kaufman’s conclusion was that there is no ‘virus’: ‘This entire pandemic is a completely manufactured crisis … there is no evidence of anyone dying from [this] illness.’ Dr Tom Cowan and Sally Fallon Morell, authors of The Contagion Myth, published a statement with Dr Kaufman in February, 2021, explaining why the ‘virus’ does not exist and you can read it that in full in the Appendix.  ‘Virus’ theory can be traced to the ‘cell theory’ in 1858 of German physician Rudolf Virchow (1821-1920) who contended that disease originates from a single cell inﬁltrated by a ‘virus’. Dr Stefan Lanka said that ﬁndings and insights with respect to the structure, function and central importance of tissues in the creation of life, which were already known in 1858, comprehensively refute the cell theory. Virchow ignored them. We have seen the part later played by John Enders in the 1950s and Lanka notes that infection theories were only established as a global dogma through the policies and eugenics of the Third Reich in Nazi Germany (creation of the same Sabbatian cult behind the ‘Covid’ hoax). Lanka said: ‘Before 1933, scientists dared to contradict this theory; a er 1933, these critical scientists were silenced’. Dr Tom Cowan’s view is that ill-heath is caused by too much of something, too li le of something, or toxiﬁcation from chemicals and radiation – not contagion. We must also highlight as a major source of the ‘virus’ theology a man still called the ‘Father of Modern Virology’ – Thomas Milton Rivers (1888-1962). There is no way given the Cult’s long game policy that it was a coincidence for the ‘Father of Modern Virology’ to be director of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research from 1937 to 1956 when he is credited with making the Rockefeller Institute a leader in ‘viral research’. Cult Rockefellers were the force behind the creation of Big Pharma ‘medicine’, established the World Health Organisation in 1948, and have long and close associations with the Gates family that now runs the WHO during the pandemic hoax through mega-rich Cult gofer and psychopath Bill Gates.  Only a Renegade Mind can see through all this bullshit by asking the questions that need to be answered, not taking ‘no’ or prevarication for an answer, and certainly not hiding from the truth in fear of speaking it. Renegade Minds have always changed the world for the be er and they will change this one no ma er how bleak it may currently appear to be. CHAPTER SIX

Sequence of deceit

 If you tell the truth, you don’t have to remember anything Mark Twain



A gainst the background that I have laid out this far the sequence that took us from an invented ‘virus’ in Cult-owned China in late 2019 to the fascist transformation of human society can be seen and understood in a whole new context.  We were told that a deadly disease had broken out in Wuhan and the world media began its campaign (coordinated by behavioural psychologists as we shall see) to terrify the population into unquestioning compliance. We were shown images of Chinese people collapsing in the street which never happened in the West with what was supposed to be the same condition. In the earliest days when alleged cases and deaths were few the fear register was hysterical in many areas of the media and this would expand into the common media narrative across the world. The real story was rather diﬀerent, but we were never told that. The Chinese government, one of the Cult’s biggest centres of global operation, said they had discovered a new illness with ﬂu-like and pneumonia- type symptoms in a city with such toxic air that it is overwhelmed with ﬂu-like symptoms, pneumonia and respiratory disease. Chinese scientists said it was a new – ‘novel’ – coronavirus which they called Sars-Cov-2 and that it caused a disease they labelled ‘Covid-19’. There was no evidence for this and the ‘virus’ has never to this day been isolated, puriﬁed and its genetic code established from that. It was from the beginning a computer-generated ﬁction. Stories of Chinese whistleblowers saying the number of deaths was being supressed or that the ‘new disease’ was related to the Wuhan bio-lab misdirected mainstream and alternative media into cul-de-sacs to obscure the real truth – there was no ‘virus’.  Chinese scientists took genetic material from the lung ﬂuid of just a few people and said they had found a ‘new’ disease when this material had a wide range of content. There was no evidence for a ‘virus’ for the very reasons explained in the last two chapters. The ‘virus’ has never been shown to (a) exist and (b) cause any disease. People were diagnosed on symptoms that are so widespread in Wuhan and polluted China and with a PCR test that can’t detect infectious disease. On this farce the whole global scam was sold to the rest of the world which would also diagnose respiratory disease as ‘Covid-19’ from symptoms alone or with a PCR test not testing for a ‘virus’. Flu miraculously disappeared worldwide in 2020 and into 2021 as it was redesignated ‘Covid-19’. It was really the same old ﬂu with its ‘ﬂu-like’ symptoms a ributed to ‘ﬂu-like’ ‘Covid-19’. At the same time with very few exceptions the Chinese response of draconian lockdown and fascism was the chosen weapon to respond across the West as recommended by the Cult-owned Tedros at the Cult-owned World Health Organization run by the Cult-owned Gates. All was going according to plan. Chinese scientists – everything in China is controlled by the Cult-owned government – compared their contaminated RNA lung-ﬂuid material with other RNA sequences and said it appeared to be just under 80 percent identical to the SARS-CoV-1 ‘virus’ claimed to be the cause of the SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) ‘outbreak’ in 2003. They decreed that because of this the ‘new virus’ had to be related and they called it SARS-CoV-2. There are some serious problems with this assumption and assumption was all it was. Most ‘factual’ science turns out to be assumptions repeated into everyone-knows-that. A match of under 80-percent is meaningless. Dr Kaufman makes the point that there’s a 96 percent genetic correlation between humans and chimpanzees, but ‘no one would say our genetic material is part of the chimpanzee family’. Yet the Chinese authorities were claiming that a much lower percentage, less than 80 percent, proved the existence of a new ‘coronavirus’. For goodness sake human DNA is 60 percent similar to a banana.

You are feeling sleepy The entire ‘Covid’ hoax is a global Psyop, a psychological operation to program the human mind into believing and fearing a complete fantasy. A crucial aspect of this was what appeared to happen in Italy. It was all very well streaming out daily images of an alleged catastrophe in Wuhan, but to the Western mind it was still on the other side of the world in a very diﬀerent culture and se ing. A reaction of ‘this could happen to me and my family’ was still nothing like as intense enough for the mind-doctors. The Cult needed a Western example to push people over that edge and it chose Italy, one of its major global locations going back to the Roman Empire. An Italian ‘Covid’ crisis was manufactured in a particular area called Lombardy which just happens to be notorious for its toxic air and therefore respiratory disease. Wuhan, China, déjà vu. An hysterical media told horror stories of Italians dying from ‘Covid’ in their droves and how Lombardy hospitals were being overrun by a tidal wave of desperately ill people needing treatment a er being struck down by the ‘deadly virus’. Here was the psychological turning point the Cult had planned. Wow, if this is happening in Italy, the Western mind concluded, this indeed could happen to me and my family. Another point is that Italian authorities responded by following the Chinese blueprint so vehemently recommended by the Cult-owned World Health Organization. They imposed fascistic lockdowns on the whole country viciously policed with the help of surveillance drones sweeping through the streets seeking out anyone who escaped from mass house arrest. Livelihoods were destroyed and psychology unravelled in the way we have witnessed since in all lockdown countries. Crucial to the plan was that Italy responded in this way to set the precedent of suspending freedom and imposing fascism in a ‘Western liberal democracy’. I emphasised in an animated video explanation on davidicke.com posted in the summer of 2020 how important it was to the Cult to expand the Chinese lockdown model across the West. Without this, and the bare-faced lie that non-symptomatic people could still transmit a ‘disease’ they didn’t have, there was no way locking down the whole population, sick and not sick, could be pulled oﬀ. At just the right time and with no evidence Cult operatives and gofers claimed that people without symptoms could pass on the ‘disease’. In the name of protecting the ‘vulnerable’ like elderly people, who lockdowns would kill by the tens of thousands, we had for the ﬁrst time healthy people told to isolate as well as the sick. The great majority of people who tested positive had no symptoms because there was nothing wrong with them. It was just a trick made possible by a test not testing for the ‘virus’.  Months a er my animated video the Gates-funded Professor Neil Ferguson at the Gates-funded Imperial College conﬁrmed that I was right. He didn’t say it in those terms, naturally, but he did say it. Ferguson will enter the story shortly for his outrageously crazy ‘computer models’ that led to Britain, the United States and many other countries following the Chinese and now Italian methods of response. Put another way, following the Cult script. Ferguson said that SAGE, the UK government’s scientiﬁc advisory group which has controlled ‘Covid’ policy from the start, wanted to follow the Chinese lockdown model (while they all continued to work and be paid), but they wondered if they could possibly, in Ferguson’s words, ‘get away with it in Europe’. ‘Get away with it’? Who the hell do these moronic, arrogant people think they are? This appalling man Ferguson said that once Italy went into national lockdown they realised they, too, could mimic China:

It’s a communist one-party state, we said. We couldn’t get away with it in Europe, we thought … and then Italy did it. And we realised we could. Behind this garbage from Ferguson is a simple fact: Doing the same as China in every country was the plan from the start and Ferguson’s ‘models’ would play a central role in achieving that. It’s just a coincidence, of course, and absolutely nothing to worry your little head about. Oops, sorry, our mistake Once the Italian segment of the Psyop had done the job it was designed to do a very diﬀerent story emerged. Italian authorities revealed that 99 percent of those who had ‘died from Covid-19’ in Italy had one, two, three, or more ‘co-morbidities’ or illnesses and health problems that could have ended their life. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a ﬁgure of 94 percent for Americans dying of ‘Covid’ while having other serious medical conditions – on average two to three (some ﬁve or six) other potential causes of death. In terms of death from an unproven ‘virus’ I say it is 100 percent. The other one percent in Italy and six percent in the US would presumably have died from ‘Covid’s’ ﬂu-like symptoms with a range of other possible causes in conjunction with a test not testing for the ‘virus’. Fox News reported that even more startling ﬁgures had emerged in one US county in which 410 of 422 deaths a ributed to ‘Covid-19’ had other potentially deadly health conditions. The Italian National Health Institute said later that the average age of people dying with a ‘Covid-19’ diagnosis in Italy was about 81. Ninety percent were over 70 with ten percent over 90. In terms of other reasons to die some 80 percent had two or more chronic diseases with half having three or more including cardiovascular problems, diabetes, respiratory problems and cancer. Why is the phantom ‘Covid-19’ said to kill overwhelmingly old people and hardly aﬀect the young? Old people continually die of many causes and especially respiratory disease which you can re- diagnose ‘Covid-19’ while young people die in tiny numbers by comparison and rarely of respiratory disease. Old people ‘die of Covid’ because they die of other things that can be redesignated ‘Covid’ and it really is that simple.

Flu has flown The blueprint was in place. Get your illusory ‘cases’ from a test not testing for the ‘virus’ and redesignate other causes of death as ‘Covid-19’. You have an instant ‘pandemic’ from something that is nothing more than a computer-generated ﬁction. With near-on a billion people having ‘ﬂu-like’ symptoms every year the potential was limitless and we can see why ﬂu quickly and apparently miraculously disappeared worldwide by being diagnosed ‘Covid-19’. The painfully bloody obvious was explained away by the childlike media in headlines like this in the UK ‘Independent’: ‘Not a single case of ﬂu detected by Public Health England this year as Covid restrictions suppress virus’. I kid you not. The masking, social distancing and house arrest that did not make the ‘Covid virus’ disappear somehow did so with the ‘ﬂu virus’. Even worse the article, by a bloke called Samuel Love , suggested that maybe the masking, sanitising and other ‘Covid’ measures should continue to keep the ﬂu away. With a ridiculousness that disturbs your breathing (it’s ‘Covid-19’) the said Love wrote: ‘With widespread social distancing and mask-wearing measures in place throughout the UK, the usual routes of transmission for inﬂuenza have been blocked.’ He had absolutely no evidence to support that statement, but look at the consequences of him acknowledging the obvious. With ﬂu not disappearing at all and only being relabelled ‘Covid-19’ he would have to contemplate that ‘Covid’ was a hoax on a scale that is hard to imagine. You need guts and commitment to truth to even go there and that’s clearly something Samuel Love does not have in abundance. He would never have got it through the editors anyway.  Tens of thousands die in the United States alone every winter from ﬂu including many with pneumonia complications. CDC ﬁgures record 45 million Americans diagnosed with ﬂu in 2017-2018 of which 61,000 died and some reports claim 80,000. Where was the same hysteria then that we have seen with ‘Covid-19’? Some 250,000 Americans are admi ed to hospital with pneumonia every year with about 50,000 cases proving fatal. About 65 million suﬀer respiratory disease every year and three million deaths makes this the third biggest cause of death worldwide. You only have to redesignate a portion of all these people ‘Covid-19’ and you have an instant global pandemic or the appearance of one. Why would doctors do this? They are told to do this and all but a few dare not refuse those who must be obeyed. Doctors in general are not researching their own knowledge and instead take it direct and unquestioned from the authorities that own them and their careers. The authorities say they must now diagnose these symptoms ‘Covid-19’ and not ﬂu, or whatever, and they do it. Dark suits say put ‘Covid-19’ on death certiﬁcates no ma er what the cause of death and the doctors do it. Renegade Minds don’t fall for the illusion that doctors and medical staﬀ are all highly-intelligent, highly-principled, seekers of medical truth. Some are, but not the majority. They are repeaters, gofers, and yes sir, no sir, purveyors of what the system demands they purvey. The ‘Covid’ con is not merely conﬁned to diseases of the lungs. Instructions to doctors to put ‘Covid-19’ on death certiﬁcates for anyone dying of anything within 28 days (or much more) of a positive test not testing for the ‘virus’ opened the ﬂoodgates. The term dying with ‘Covid’ and not of ‘Covid’ was coined to cover the truth. Whether it was a with or an of they were all added to the death numbers a ributed to the ‘deadly virus’ compiled by national governments and globally by the Gates-funded Johns Hopkins operation in the United States that was so involved in those ‘pandemic’ simulations. Fraudulent deaths were added to the ever- growing list of fraudulent ‘cases’ from false positives from a false test. No wonder Professor Walter Ricciardi, scientiﬁc advisor to the Italian minister of health, said a er the Lombardy hysteria had done its job that ‘Covid’ death rates were due to Italy having the second oldest population in the world and to how hospitals record deaths:

The way in which we code deaths in our country is very generous in the sense that all the people who die in hospitals with the coronavirus are deemed to be dying of the coronavirus. On re-evaluation by the National Institute of Health, only 12 per cent of death certificates have shown a direct causality from coronavirus, while 88 per cent of patients who have died have at least one pre-morbidity – many had two or three.


This is extraordinary enough when you consider the propaganda campaign to use Italy to terrify the world, but how can they even say twelve percent were genuine when the ‘virus’ has not been shown to exist, its ‘code’ is a computer program, and diagnosis comes from a test not testing for it? As in China, and soon the world, ‘Covid-19’ in Italy was a redesignation of diagnosis. Lies and corruption were to become the real ‘pandemic’ fuelled by a pathetically-compliant medical system taking its orders from the tiny few at the top of their national hierarchy who answered to the World Health Organization which answers to Gates and the Cult. Doctors were told – ordered – to diagnose a particular set of symptoms ‘Covid-19’ and put that on the death certiﬁcate for any cause of death if the patient had tested positive with a test not testing for the virus or had ‘Covid’ symptoms like the ﬂu. The United States even introduced big ﬁnancial incentives to manipulate the ﬁgures with hospitals receiving £4,600 from the Medicare system for diagnosing someone with regular pneumonia, $13,000 if they made the diagnosis from the same symptoms ‘Covid-19’ pneumonia, and $39, 000 if they put a ‘Covid’ diagnosed patient on a ventilator that would almost certainly kill them. A few – painfully and pathetically few – medical whistleblowers revealed (before Cult-owned YouTube deleted their videos) that they had been instructed to ‘let the patient crash’ and put them straight on a ventilator instead of going through a series of far less intrusive and dangerous methods as they would have done before the pandemic hoax began and the ﬁnancial incentives kicked in. We are talking cold-blooded murder given that ventilators are so damaging to respiratory systems they are usually the last step before heaven awaits. Renegade Minds never fall for the belief that people in white coats are all angels of mercy and cannot be full-on psychopaths. I have explained in detail in The Answer how what I am describing here played out across the world coordinated by the World Health Organization through the medical hierarchies in almost every country.

Medical scientist calls it Information about the non-existence of the ‘virus’ began to emerge for me in late March, 2020, and mushroomed a er that. I was sent an email by Sir Julian Rose, a writer, researcher, and organic farming promotor, from a medical scientist friend of his in the United States. Even at that early stage in March the scientist was able to explain how the ‘Covid’ hoax was being manipulated. He said there were no reliable tests for a speciﬁc ‘Covid-19 virus’ and nor were there any reliable agencies or media outlets for reporting numbers of actual ‘Covid-19’ cases. We have seen in the long period since then that he was absolutely right. ‘Every action and reaction to Covid-19 is based on totally ﬂawed data and we simply cannot make accurate assessments,’ he said. Most people diagnosed with ‘Covid-19’ were showing nothing more than cold and ﬂu-like symptoms ‘because most coronavirus strains are nothing more than cold/ﬂu-like symptoms’. We had farcical situations like an 84-year-old German man testing positive for ‘Covid-19’ and his nursing home ordered to quarantine only for him to be found to have a common cold. The scientist described back then why PCR tests and what he called the ‘Mickey Mouse test kits’ were useless for what they were claimed to be identifying. ‘The idea these kits can isolate a speciﬁc virus like Covid-19 is nonsense,’ he said. Signiﬁcantly, he pointed out that ‘if you want to create a totally false panic about a totally false pandemic – pick a coronavirus’. This is exactly what the Cult-owned Gates, World Economic Forum and Johns Hopkins University did with their Event 201 ‘simulation’ followed by their real-life simulation called the ‘pandemic’. The scientist said that all you had to do was select the sickest of people with respiratory-type diseases in a single location – ‘say Wuhan’ – and administer PCR tests to them. You can then claim that anyone showing ‘viral sequences’ similar to a coronavirus ‘which will inevitably be quite a few’ is suﬀering from a ‘new’ disease:

Since you already selected the sickest flu cases a fairly high proportion of your sample will go on to die. You can then say this ‘new’ virus has a CFR [case fatality rate] higher than the flu and use this to infuse more concern and do more tests which will of course produce more ‘cases’, which expands the testing, which produces yet more ‘cases’ and so on and so on. Before long you have your ‘pandemic’, and all you have done is use a simple test kit trick to convert the worst flu and pneumonia cases into something new that doesn’t ACTUALLY EXIST [my emphasis].


He said that you then ‘just run the same scam in other countries’ and make sure to keep the fear message running high ‘so that people will feel panicky and less able to think critically’. The only problem to overcome was the fact there is no actual new deadly pathogen and only regular sick people. This meant that deaths from the ‘new deadly pathogen’ were going to be way too low for a real new deadly virus pandemic, but he said this could be overcome in the following ways – all of which would go on to happen:

1. You can claim this is just the beginning and more deaths are imminent [you underpin this with fantasy ‘computer projections’]. Use this as an excuse to quarantine everyone and then claim the quarantine prevented the expected millions of dead.

2. You can [say that people] ‘minimizing’ the dangers are irresponsible and bully them into not talking about numbers.

3. You can talk crap about made up numbers hoping to blind people with pseudoscience.

4. You can start testing well people (who, of course, will also likely have shreds of coronavirus [RNA] in them) and thus inﬂate your ‘case ﬁgures’ with ‘asymptomatic carriers’ (you will of course have to spin that to sound deadly even though any virologist knows the more symptom-less cases you have the less deadly is your pathogen).


The scientist said that if you take these simple steps ‘you can have your own entirely manufactured pandemic up and running in weeks’. His analysis made so early in the hoax was brilliantly prophetic of what would actually unfold. Pulling all the information together in these recent chapters we have this is simple 1, 2, 3, of how you can delude virtually the entire human population into believing in a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist:

• A ‘Covid case’ is someone who tests positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’.

• A ‘Covid death’ is someone who dies of any cause within 28 days (or much longer) of testing positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus.

• Asymptomatic means there is nothing wrong with you, but they claim you can pass on what you don’t have to justify locking down (quarantining) healthy people in totality.

The foundations of the hoax are that simple. A study involving ten million people in Wuhan, published in November, 2020, demolished the whole lie about those without symptoms passing on the ‘virus’. They found ‘300 asymptomatic cases’ and traced their contacts to ﬁnd that not one of them was detected with the ‘virus’. ‘Asymptomatic’ patients and their contacts were isolated for no less than two weeks and nothing changed. I know it’s all crap, but if you are going to claim that those without symptoms can transmit ‘the virus’ then you must produce evidence for that and they never have. Even World Health Organization oﬃcial Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, head of the emerging diseases and zoonosis unit, said as early as June, 2020, that she doubted the validity of asymptomatic transmission. She said that ‘from the data we have, it still seems to be rare that an asymptomatic person actually transmits onward to a secondary individual’ and by ‘rare’ she meant that she couldn’t cite any case of asymptomatic transmission.

The Ferguson factor The problem for the Cult as it headed into March, 2020, when the script had lockdown due to start, was that despite all the manipulation of the case and death ﬁgures they still did not have enough people alleged to have died from ‘Covid’ to justify mass house arrest. This was overcome in the way the scientist described: ‘You can claim this is just the beginning and more deaths are imminent … Use this as an excuse to quarantine everyone and then claim the quarantine prevented the expected millions of dead.’ Enter one Professor Neil Ferguson, the Gates-funded ‘epidemiologist’ at the Gates-funded Imperial College in London. Ferguson is Britain’s Christian Drosten in that he has a dire record of predicting health outcomes, but is still called upon to advise government on the next health outcome when another ‘crisis’ comes along. This may seem to be a strange and ridiculous thing to do. Why would you keep turning for policy guidance to people who have a history of being monumentally wrong? Ah, but it makes sense from the Cult point of view. These ‘experts’ keep on producing predictions that suit the Cult agenda for societal transformation and so it was with Neil Ferguson as he revealed his horriﬁc (and clearly insane) computer model predictions that allowed lockdowns to be imposed in Britain, the United States and many other countries. Ferguson does not have even an A-level in biology and would appear to have no formal training in computer modelling, medicine or epidemiology, according to Derek Winton, an MSc in Computational Intelligence. He wrote an article somewhat aghast at what Ferguson did which included taking no account of respiratory disease ‘seasonality’ which means it is far worse in the winter months. Who would have thought that respiratory disease could be worse in the winter? Well, certainly not Ferguson.  The massively China-connected Imperial College and its bizarre professor provided the excuse for the long-incubated Chinese model of human control to travel westward at lightning speed. Imperial College conﬁrms on its website that it collaborates with the Chinese Research Institute; publishes more than 600 research papers every year with Chinese research institutions; has 225 Chinese staﬀ; 2,600 Chinese students – the biggest international group; 7,000 former students living in China which is the largest group outside the UK; and was selected for a tour by China’s President Xi Jinping during his state visit to the UK in 2015. The college takes major donations from China and describes itself as the UK’s number one university collaborator with Chinese research institutions. The China communist/fascist government did not appear phased by the woeful predictions of Ferguson and Imperial when during the lockdown that Ferguson induced the college signed a ﬁve-year collaboration deal with China tech giant Huawei that will have Huawei’s indoor 5G network equipment installed at the college’s West London tech campus along with an ‘AI cloud platform’. The deal includes Chinese sponsorship of Imperial’s Venture Catalyst entrepreneurship competition. Imperial is an example of the enormous inﬂuence the Chinese government has within British and North American universities and research centres – and further aﬁeld. Up to 200 academics from more than a dozen UK universities are being investigated on suspicion of ‘unintentionally’ helping the Chinese government build weapons of mass destruction by ‘transferring world-leading research in advanced military technology such as aircra , missile designs and cyberweapons’. Similar scandals have broken in the United States, but it’s all a coincidence. Imperial College serves the agenda in many other ways including the promotion of every aspect of the United Nations Agenda 21/2030 (the Great Reset) and produced computer models to show that human-caused ‘climate change’ is happening when in the real world it isn’t. Imperial College is driving the climate agenda as it drives the ‘Covid’ agenda (both Cult hoaxes) while Patrick Vallance, the UK government’s Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser on ‘Covid’, was named Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser to the UN ‘climate change’ conference known as COP26 hosted by the government in Glasgow, Scotland. ‘Covid’ and ‘climate’ are fundamentally connected.

Professor Woeful From Imperial’s bosom came Neil Ferguson still advising government despite his previous disasters and it was announced early on that he and other key people like UK Chief Medical Adviser Chris Whi y had caught the ‘virus’ as the propaganda story was being sold. Somehow they managed to survive and we had Prime Minister Boris Johnson admi ed to hospital with what was said to be a severe version of the ‘virus’ in this same period. His whole policy and demeanour changed when he returned to Downing Street. It’s a small world with these government advisors – especially in their communal connections to Gates – and Ferguson had partnered with Whi y to write a paper called ‘Infectious disease: Tough choices to reduce Ebola transmission’ which involved another scare-story that didn’t happen. Ferguson’s ‘models’ predicted that up to150, 000 could die from ‘mad cow disease’, or BSE, and its version in sheep if it was transmi ed to humans. BSE was not transmi ed and instead triggered by an organophosphate pesticide used to treat a pest on cows. Fewer than 200 deaths followed from the human form. Models by Ferguson and his fellow incompetents led to the unnecessary culling of millions of pigs, ca le and sheep in the foot and mouth outbreak in 2001 which destroyed the lives and livelihoods of farmers and their families who had o en spent decades building their herds and ﬂocks. Vast numbers of these animals did not have foot and mouth and had no contact with the infection. Another ‘expert’ behind the cull was Professor Roy Anderson, a computer modeller at Imperial College specialising in the epidemiology of human, not animal, disease. Anderson has served on the Bill and Melinda Gates Grand Challenges in Global Health advisory board and chairs another Gates-funded organisation. Gates is everywhere.  In a precursor to the ‘Covid’ script Ferguson backed closing schools ‘for prolonged periods’ over the swine ﬂu ‘pandemic’ in 2009 and said it would aﬀect a third of the world population if it continued to spread at the speed he claimed to be happening. His mates at Imperial College said much the same and a news report said: ‘One of the authors, the epidemiologist and disease modeller Neil Ferguson, who sits on the World Health Organisation’s emergency commi ee for the outbreak, said the virus had “full pandemic potential”.’ Professor Liam Donaldson, the Chris Whi y of his day as Chief Medical Oﬃcer, said the worst case could see 30 percent of the British people infected by swine ﬂu with 65,000 dying. Ferguson and Donaldson were indeed proved correct when at the end of the year the number of deaths a ributed to swine ﬂu was 392. The term ‘expert’ is rather liberally applied unfortunately, not least to complete idiots. Swine ﬂu ‘projections’ were great for GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as millions rolled in for its Pandemrix inﬂuenza vaccine which led to brain damage with children most aﬀected. The British government (taxpayers) paid out more than £60 million in compensation a er GSK was given immunity from prosecution. Yet another ‘Covid’ déjà vu. Swine ﬂu was supposed to have broken out in Mexico, but Dr Wolfgang Wodarg, a German doctor, former member of parliament and critic of the ‘Covid’ hoax, observed ‘the spread of swine ﬂu’ in Mexico City at the time. He said: ‘What we experienced in Mexico City was a very mild ﬂu which did not kill more than usual – which killed even fewer people than usual.’ Hyping the fear against all the facts is not unique to ‘Covid’ and has happened many times before. Ferguson is reported to have over-estimated the projected death toll of bird ﬂu (H5N1) by some three million-fold, but bird ﬂu vaccine makers again made a killing from the scare. This is some of the background to the Neil Ferguson who produced the perfectly-timed computer models in early 2020 predicting that half a million people would die in Britain without draconian lockdown and 2.2 million in the United States. Politicians panicked, people panicked, and lockdowns of alleged short duration were instigated to ‘ﬂa en the curve’ of cases gleaned from a test not testing for the ‘virus’. I said at the time that the public could forget the ‘short duration’ bit. This was an agenda to destroy the livelihoods of the population and force them into mass control through dependency and there was going to be nothing ‘short’ about it. American researcher Daniel Horowitz described the consequences of the ‘models’ spewed out by Gates-funded Ferguson and Imperial College:

What led our government and the governments of many other countries into panic was a single Imperial College of UK study, funded by global warming activists, that predicted 2.2 million deaths if we didn’t lock down the country. In addition, the reported 8-9% death rate in Italy scared us into thinking there was some other mutation of this virus that they got, which might have come here.

Together with the fact that we were finally testing and had the ability to actually report new cases, we thought we were headed for a death spiral. But again … we can’t flatten a curve if we don’t know when the curve started.


How about it never started?

Giving them what they want An investigation by German news outlet Welt Am Sonntag (World on Sunday) revealed how in March, 2020, the German government gathered together ‘leading scientists from several research institutes and universities’ and ‘together, they were to produce a [modelling] paper that would serve as legitimization for further tough political measures’. The Cult agenda was justiﬁed by computer modelling not based on evidence or reality; it was speciﬁcally constructed to justify the Cult demand for lockdowns all over the world to destroy the independent livelihoods of the global population. All these modellers and everyone responsible for the ‘Covid’ hoax have a date with a trial like those in Nuremberg a er World War Two when Nazis faced the consequences of their war crimes. These corrupt- beyond-belief ‘modellers’ wrote the paper according to government instructions and it said that that if lockdown measures were li ed then up to one million Germans would die from ‘Covid-19’ adding that some would die ‘agonizingly at home, gasping for breath’ unable to be treated by hospitals that couldn’t cope. All lies. No ma er – it gave the Cult all that it wanted. What did long-time government ‘modeller’ Neil Ferguson say? If the UK and the United States didn’t lockdown half a million would die in Britain and 2.2 million Americans. Anyone see a theme here? ‘Modellers’ are such a crucial part of the lockdown strategy that we should look into their background and follow the money. Researcher Rosemary Frei produced an excellent article headlined ‘The Modelling-paper Maﬁosi’. She highlights a guy called John Edmunds, a British epidemiologist, and professor in the Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. He studied at Imperial College. Edmunds is a member of government ‘Covid’ advisory bodies which have been dictating policy, the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG) and the Scientiﬁc Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE).  Ferguson, another member of NERVTAG and SAGE, led the way with the original ‘virus’ and Edmunds has followed in the ‘variant’ stage and especially the so-called UK or Kent variant known as the ‘Variant of Concern’ (VOC) B.1.1.7. He said in a co-wri en report for the Centre for Mathematical modelling of Infectious Diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, with input from the Centre’s ‘Covid-19’ Working Group, that there was ‘a realistic possibility that VOC B.1.1.7 is associated with an increased risk of death compared to non-VOC viruses’. Fear, fear, fear, get the vaccine, fear, fear, fear, get the vaccine. Rosemary Frei reveals that almost all the paper’s authors and members of the modelling centre’s ‘Covid-19’ Working Group receive funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and/or the associated Gates-funded Wellcome Trust. The paper was published by e-journal Medr χiv which only publishes papers not peer-reviewed and the journal was established by an organisation headed by Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and his missus. What a small world it is. Frei discovered that Edmunds is on the Scientiﬁc Advisory Board of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) which was established by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Klaus Schwab’s Davos World Economic Forum and Big Pharma giant Wellcome. CEPI was ‘launched in Davos [in 2017] to develop vaccines to stop future epidemics’, according to its website. ‘Our mission is to accelerate the development of vaccines against emerging infectious diseases and enable equitable access to these vaccines for people during outbreaks.’ What kind people they are. Rosemary Frei reveals that Public Health England (PHE) director Susan Hopkins is an author of her organisation’s non-peer-reviewed reports on ‘new variants’. Hopkins is a professor of infectious diseases at London’s Imperial College which is gi ed tens of millions of dollars a year by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Gates-funded modelling disaster Neil Ferguson also co-authors Public Health England reports and he spoke in December, 2020, about the potential danger of the B.1.1.7. ‘UK variant’ promoted by Gates-funded modeller John Edmunds. When I come to the ‘Covid vaccines’ the ‘new variants’ will be shown for what they are – bollocks.

Connections, connections All these people and modellers are lockdown-obsessed or, put another way, they demand what the Cult demands. Edmunds said in January, 2021, that to ease lockdowns too soon would be a disaster and they had to ‘vaccinate much, much, much more widely than the elderly’. Rosemary Frei highlights that Edmunds is married to Jeanne Pimenta who is described in a LinkedIn proﬁle as director of epidemiology at GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and she held shares in the company. Patrick Vallance, co-chair of SAGE and the government’s Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser, is a former executive of GSK and has a deferred bonus of shares in the company worth £600,000. GSK has serious business connections with Bill Gates and is collaborating with mRNA-’vaccine’ company CureVac to make ‘vaccines’ for the new variants that Edmunds is talking about. GSK is planning a ‘Covid vaccine’ with drug giant Sanoﬁ. Puppet Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced in the spring of 2021 that up to 60 million vaccine doses were to be made at the GSK facility at Barnard Castle in the English North East. Barnard Castle, with a population of just 6,000, was famously visited in breach of lockdown rules in April, 2020, by Johnson aide Dominic Cummings who said that he drove there ‘to test his eyesight’ before driving back to London. Cummings would be be er advised to test his integrity – not that it would take long. The GSK facility had nothing to do with his visit then although I’m sure Patrick Vallance would have been happy to arrange an introduction and some tea and biscuits. Ruthless psychopath Gates has made yet another fortune from vaccines in collaboration with Big Pharma companies and gushes at the phenomenal proﬁts to be made from vaccines – more than a 20-to-1 return as he told one interviewer. Gates also tweeted in December, 2019, with the foreknowledge of what was coming: ‘What’s next for our foundation? I’m particularly excited about what the next year could mean for one of the best buys in global health: vaccines.’  Modeller John Edmunds is a big promotor of vaccines as all these people appear to be. He’s the dean of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine’s Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health which is primarily funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Gates-established and funded GAVI vaccine alliance which is the Gates vehicle to vaccinate the world. The organisation Doctors Without Borders has described GAVI as being ‘aimed more at supporting drug-industry desires to promote new products than at ﬁnding the most eﬃcient and sustainable means for ﬁghting the diseases of poverty’. But then that’s why the psychopath Gates created it. John Edmunds said in a video that the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine is involved in every aspect of vaccine development including large-scale clinical trials. He contends that mathematical modelling can show that vaccines protect individuals and society. That’s on the basis of shit in and shit out, I take it. Edmunds serves on the UK Vaccine Network as does Ferguson and the government’s foremost ‘Covid’ adviser, the grim- faced, dark-eyed Chris Whi y. The Vaccine Network says it works ‘to support the government to identify and shortlist targeted investment opportunities for the most promising vaccines and vaccine technologies that will help combat infectious diseases with epidemic potential, and to address structural issues related to the UK’s broader vaccine infrastructure’. Ferguson is acting Director of the Imperial College Vaccine Impact Modelling Consortium which has funding from the Bill and Melina Gates Foundation and the Gates-created GAVI ‘vaccine alliance’. Anyone wonder why these characters see vaccines as the answer to every problem? Ferguson is wildly enthusiastic in his support for GAVI’s campaign to vaccine children en masse in poor countries. You would expect someone like Gates who has constantly talked about the need to reduce the population to want to fund vaccines to keep more people alive. I’m sure that’s why he does it. The John Edmunds London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) has a Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre which develops, tests and commercialises vaccines. Rosemary Frei writes:

The vaccines centre also performs affiliated activities like combating ‘vaccine hesitancy’. The latter includes the Vaccine Confidence Project. The project’s stated purpose is, among other things, ‘to provide analysis and guidance for early response and engagement with the public to ensure sustained confidence in vaccines and immunisation’. The Vaccine Confidence Project’s director is LSHTM professor Heidi Larson. For more than a decade she’s been researching how to combat vaccine hesitancy.


How the bloody hell can blokes like John Edmunds and Neil Ferguson with those connections and ﬁnancial ties model ‘virus’ case and death projections for the government and especially in a way that gives their paymasters like Gates exactly what they want? It’s insane, but this is what you ﬁnd throughout the world.

‘Covid’ is not dangerous, oops, wait, yes it is Only days before Ferguson’s nightmare scenario made Jackboot Johnson take Britain into a China-style lockdown to save us from a deadly ‘virus’ the UK government website gov.uk was reporting something very diﬀerent to Ferguson on a page of oﬃcial government guidance for ‘high consequence infectious diseases (HCID)’. It said this about ‘Covid-19’:

As of 19 March 2020, COVID-19 is no longer considered to be a high consequence infectious diseases (HCID) in the UK [my emphasis]. The 4 nations public health HCID group made an interim recommendation in January 2020 to classify COVID-19 as an HCID. This was based on consideration of the UK HCID criteria about the virus and the disease with information available during the early stages of the outbreak.

Now that more is known about COVID-19, the public health bodies in the UK have reviewed the most up to date information about COVID-19 against the UK HCID criteria. They have determined that several features have now changed; in particular, more information is available about mortality rates (low overall), and there is now greater clinical awareness and a specific and sensitive laboratory test, the availability of which continues to increase. The Advisory Committee on Dangerous Pathogens (ACDP) is also of the opinion that COVID-19 should no longer be classified as an HCID.


 Soon a er the government had been exposed for downgrading the risk they upgraded it again and everyone was back to singing from the same Cult hymn book. Ferguson and his fellow Gates clones indicated that lockdowns and restrictions would have to continue until a Gates-funded vaccine was developed. Gates said the same because Ferguson and his like were repeating the Gates script which is the Cult script. ‘Fla en the curve’ became an ongoing nightmare of continuing lockdowns with periods in between of severe restrictions in pursuit of destroying independent incomes and had nothing to do with protecting health about which the Cult gives not a shit. Why wouldn’t Ferguson be pushing a vaccine ‘solution’ when he’s owned by vaccine-obsessive Gates who makes a fortune from them and when Ferguson heads the Vaccine Impact Modelling Consortium at Imperial College funded by the Gates Foundation and GAVI, the ‘vaccine alliance’, created by Gates as his personal vaccine promotion operation? To compound the human catastrophe that Ferguson’s ‘models’ did so much to create he was later exposed for breaking his own lockdown rules by having sexual liaisons with his married girlfriend Antonia Staats at his home while she was living at another location with her husband and children. Staats was a ‘climate’ activist and senior campaigner at the Soros-funded Avaaz which I wouldn’t trust to tell me that grass is green. Ferguson had to resign as a government advisor over this hypocrisy in May, 2020, but a er a period of quiet he was back being quoted by the ridiculous media on the need for more lockdowns and a vaccine rollout. Other government-advising ‘scientists’ from Imperial College’ held the fort in his absence and said lockdown could be indeﬁnite until a vaccine was found. The Cult script was being sung by the payrolled choir. I said there was no intention of going back to ‘normal’ when the ‘vaccine’ came because the ‘vaccine’ is part of a very diﬀerent agenda that I will discuss in Human 2.0. Why would the Cult want to let the world go back to normal when destroying that normal forever was the whole point of what was happening? House arrest, closing businesses and schools through lockdown, (un)social distancing and masks all followed the Ferguson fantasy models. Again as I predicted (these people are so predictable) when the ‘vaccine’ arrived we were told that house arrest, lockdown, (un)social distancing and masks would still have to continue. I will deal with the masks in the next chapter because they are of fundamental importance.

Where’s the ‘pandemic’? Any mildly in-depth assessment of the ﬁgures revealed what was really going on. Cult-funded and controlled organisations still have genuine people working within them such is the number involved. So it is with Genevieve Briand, assistant program director of the Applied Economics master’s degree program at Johns Hopkins University. She analysed the impact that ‘Covid-19’ had on deaths from all causes in the United States using oﬃcial data from the CDC for the period from early February to early September, 2020. She found that allegedly ‘Covid’ related-deaths exceeded those from heart disease which she found strange with heart disease always the biggest cause of fatalities. Her research became even more signiﬁcant when she noted the sudden decline in 2020 of all non-’Covid’ deaths: ‘This trend is completely contrary to the pa ern observed in all previous years … the total decrease in deaths by other causes almost exactly equals the increase in deaths by Covid-19.’ This was such a game, set and match in terms of what was happening that Johns Hopkins University deleted the article on the grounds that it ‘was being used to support false and dangerous inaccuracies about the impact of the pandemic’. No – because it exposed the scam from oﬃcial CDC ﬁgures and this was conﬁrmed when those ﬁgures were published in January, 2021. Here we can see the eﬀect of people dying from heart a acks, cancer, road accidents and gunshot wounds – anything – having ‘Covid-19’ on the death certiﬁcate along with those diagnosed from ‘symptoms’ who had even not tested positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’. I am not kidding with the gunshot wounds, by the way. Brenda Bock, coroner in Grand County, Colorado, revealed that two gunshot victims tested positive for the ‘virus’ within the previous 30 days and were therefore classiﬁed as ‘Covid deaths’. Bock said: ‘These two people had tested positive for Covid, but that’s not what killed them. A gunshot wound is what killed them.’ She said she had not even ﬁnished her investigation when the state listed the gunshot victims as deaths due to the ‘virus’. The death and case ﬁgures for ‘Covid-19’ are an absolute joke and yet they are repeated like parrots by the media, politicians and alleged medical ‘experts’. The oﬃcial Cult narrative is the only show in town.  Genevieve Briand found that deaths from all causes were not exceptional in 2020 compared with previous years and a Spanish magazine published ﬁgures that said the same about Spain which was a ‘Covid’ propaganda hotspot at one point. Discovery Salud, a health and medicine magazine, quoted government ﬁgures which showed how 17,000 fewer people died in Spain in 2020 than in 2019 and more than 26,000 fewer than in 2018. The age-standardised mortality rate for England and Wales when age distribution is taken into account was signiﬁcantly lower in 2020 than the 1970s, 80s and 90s, and was only the ninth highest since 2000. Where is the ‘pandemic’?  Post mortems and autopsies virtually disappeared for ‘Covid’ deaths amid claims that ‘virus-infected’ bodily ﬂuids posed a risk to those carrying out the autopsy. This was rejected by renowned German pathologist and forensic doctor Klaus Püschel who said that he and his staﬀ had by then done 150 autopsies on ‘Covid’ patients with no problems at all. He said they were needed to know why some ‘Covid’ patients suﬀered blood clots and not severe respiratory infections. The ‘virus’ is, a er all, called SARS or ‘severe acute respiratory syndrome’. I highlighted in the spring of 2020 this phenomenon and quoted New York intensive care doctor Cameron Kyle-Sidell who posted a soon deleted YouTube video to say that they had been told to prepare to treat an infectious disease called ‘Covid-19’, but that was not what they were dealing with. Instead he likened the lung condition of the most severely ill patients to what you would expect with cabin depressurisation in a plane at 30,000 feet or someone dropped on the top of Everest without oxygen or acclimatisation. I have never said this is not happening to a small minority of alleged ‘Covid’ patients – I am saying this is not caused by a phantom ‘contagious virus’. Indeed Kyle-Sidell said that ‘Covid-19’ was not the disease they were told was coming their way. ‘We are operating under a medical paradigm that is untrue,’ he said, and he believed they were treating the wrong disease: ‘These people are being slowly starved of oxygen.’ Patients would take oﬀ their oxygen masks in a state of fear and stress and while they were blue in the face on the brink of death. They did not look like patients dying of pneumonia. You can see why they don’t want autopsies when their virus doesn’t exist and there is another condition in some people that they don’t wish to be uncovered. I should add here that the 5G system of millimetre waves was being rapidly introduced around the world in 2020 and even more so now as they ﬁre 5G at the Earth from satellites. At 60 gigahertz within the 5G range that frequency interacts with the oxygen molecule and stops people breathing in suﬃcient oxygen to be absorbed into the bloodstream. They are installing 5G in schools and hospitals. The world is not mad or anything. 5G can cause major changes to the lungs and blood as I detail in The Answer and these consequences are labelled ‘Covid- 19’, the alleged symptoms of which can be caused by 5G and other electromagnetic frequencies as cells respond to radiation poisoning.

The ‘Covid death’ scam Dr Sco Jensen, a Minnesota state senator and medical doctor, exposed ‘Covid’ Medicare payment incentives to hospitals and death certiﬁcate manipulation. He said he was sent a seven-page document by the US Department of Health ‘coaching’ him on how to ﬁll out death certiﬁcates which had never happened before. The document said that he didn’t need to have a laboratory test for ‘Covid-19’ to put that on the death certiﬁcate and that shocked him when death certiﬁcates are supposed to be about facts. Jensen described how doctors had been ‘encouraged, if not pressured’ to make a diagnosis of ‘Covid-19’ if they thought it was probable or ‘presumed’. No positive test was necessary – not that this would have ma ered anyway. He said doctors were told to diagnose ‘Covid’ by symptoms when these were the same as colds, allergies, other respiratory problems, and certainly with inﬂuenza which ‘disappeared’ in the ‘Covid’ era. A common sniﬄe was enough to get the dreaded verdict. Ontario authorities decreed that a single care home resident with one symptom from a long list must lead to the isolation of the entire home. Other courageous doctors like Jensen made the same point about death ﬁgure manipulation and how deaths by other causes were falling while ‘Covid-19 deaths’ were rising at the same rate due to re-diagnosis. Their videos rarely survive long on YouTube with its Cult-supporting algorithms courtesy of CEO Susan Wojcicki and her bosses at Google. Figure-tampering was so glaring and ubiquitous that even oﬃcials were le ing it slip or outright saying it. UK chief scientiﬁc adviser Patrick Vallance said on one occasion that ‘Covid’ on the death certiﬁcate doesn’t mean ‘Covid’ was the cause of death (so why the hell is it there?) and we had the rare sight of a BBC reporter telling the truth when she said: ‘Someone could be successfully treated for Covid, in say April, discharged, and then in June, get run over by a bus and die … That person would still be counted as a Covid death in England.’ Yet the BBC and the rest of the world media went on repeating the case and death ﬁgures as if they were real. Illinois Public Health Director Dr Ngozi Ezike revealed the deceit while her bosses must have been clenching their bu ocks:

If you were in a hospice and given a few weeks to live and you were then found to have Covid that would be counted as a Covid death. [There might be] a clear alternate cause, but it is still listed as a Covid death. So everyone listed as a Covid death doesn’t mean that was the cause of the death, but that they had Covid at the time of death.


Yes, a ‘Covid virus’ never shown to exist and tested for with a test not testing for the ‘virus’. In the ﬁrst period of the pandemic hoax through the spring of 2020 the process began of designating almost everything a ‘Covid’ death and this has continued ever since. I sat in a restaurant one night listening to a loud conversation on the next table where a family was discussing in bewilderment how a relative who had no symptoms of ‘Covid’, and had died of a long-term problem, could have been diagnosed a death by the ‘virus’. I could understand their bewilderment. If they read this book they will know why this medical fraud has been perpetrated the world over.

Some media truth shock The media ignored the evidence of death certiﬁcate fraud until eventually one columnist did speak out when she saw it ﬁrst-hand. Bel Mooney is a long-time national newspaper journalist in Britain currently working for the Daily Mail. Her article on February 19th, 2021, carried this headline: ‘My dad Ted passed three Covid tests and died of a chronic illness yet he’s oﬃcially one of Britain’s 120,000 victims of the virus and is far from alone ... so how many more are there?’ She told how her 99-year-old father was in a care home with a long-standing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and vascular dementia. Maybe, but he was still aware enough to tell her from the start that there was no ‘virus’ and he refused the ‘vaccine’ for that reason. His death was not unexpected given his chronic health problems and Mooney said she was shocked to ﬁnd that ‘Covid-19’ was declared the cause of death on his death certiﬁcate. She said this was a ‘bizarre and unacceptable untruth’ for a man with long-time health problems who had tested negative twice at the home for the ‘virus’. I was also shocked by this story although not by what she said. I had been highlighting the death certiﬁcate manipulation for ten months. It was the conﬁrmation that a professional full-time journalist only realised this was going on when it aﬀected her directly and neither did she know that whether her dad tested positive or negative was irrelevant with the test not testing for the ‘virus’. Where had she been? She said she did not believe in ‘conspiracy theories’ without knowing I’m sure that this and ‘conspiracy theorists’ were terms put into widespread circulation by the CIA in the 1960s to discredit those who did not accept the ridiculous oﬃcial story of the Kennedy assassination. A blanket statement of ‘I don’t believe in conspiracy theories’ is always bizarre. The dictionary deﬁnition of the term alone means the world is drowning in conspiracies. What she said was even more da when her dad had just been aﬀected by the ‘Covid’ conspiracy. Why else does she think that ‘Covid-19’ was going on the death certiﬁcates of people who died of something else?  To be fair once she saw from personal experience what was happening she didn’t mince words. Mooney was called by the care home on the morning of February 9th to be told her father had died in his sleep. When she asked for the oﬃcial cause of death what came back was ‘Covid-19’. Mooney challenged this and was told there had been deaths from Covid on the dementia ﬂoor (conﬁrmed by a test not testing for the ‘virus’) so they considered it ‘reasonable to assume’. ‘But doctor,’ Mooney rightly protested, ‘an assumption isn’t a diagnosis.’ She said she didn’t blame the perfectly decent and sympathetic doctor – ‘he was just doing his job’. Sorry, but that’s bullshit. He wasn’t doing his job at all. He was pu ing a false cause of death on the death certiﬁcate and that is a criminal oﬀence for which he should be brought to account and the same with the millions of doctors worldwide who have done the same. They were not doing their job they were following orders and that must not wash at new Nuremberg trials any more than it did at the ﬁrst ones. Mooney’s doctor was ‘assuming’ (presuming) as he was told to, but ‘just following orders’ makes no diﬀerence to his actions. A doctor’s job is to serve the patient and the truth, not follow orders, but that’s what they have done all over the world and played a central part in making the ‘Covid’ hoax possible with all its catastrophic consequences for humanity. Shame on them and they must answer for their actions. Mooney said her disquiet worsened when she registered her father’s death by telephone and was told by the registrar there had been very many other cases like hers where ‘the deceased’ had not tested positive for ‘Covid’ yet it was recorded as the cause of death. The test may not ma er, but those involved at their level think it ma ers and it shows a callous disregard for accurate diagnosis. The pressure to do this is coming from the top of the national ‘health’ pyramids which in turn obey the World Health Organization which obeys Gates and the Cult. Mooney said the registrar agreed that this must distort the national ﬁgures adding that ‘the strangest thing is that every winter we record countless deaths from ﬂu, and this winter there have been none. Not one!’ She asked if the registrar thought deaths from ﬂu were being misdiagnosed and lumped together with ‘Covid’ deaths. The answer was a ‘puzzled yes’. Mooney said that the funeral director said the same about ‘Covid’ deaths which had nothing to do with ‘Covid’. They had lost count of the number of families upset by this and other funeral companies in diﬀerent countries have had the same experience. Mooney wrote: The nightly shroud-waving and shocking close-ups of pain imposed on us by the TV news bewildered and terrified the population into eager compliance with lockdowns. We were invited to ‘save the NHS’ and to grieve for strangers – the real-life loved ones behind those shocking death counts. Why would the public imagine what I now fear, namely that the way Covid-19 death statistics are compiled might make the numbers seem greater than they are?


Oh, just a li le bit – like 100 percent.

Do the maths Mooney asked why a country would wish to skew its mortality ﬁgures by wrongly certifying deaths? What had been going on? Well, if you don’t believe in conspiracies you will never ﬁnd the answer which is that it’s a conspiracy. She did, however, describe what she had discovered as a ‘national scandal’. In reality it’s a global scandal and happening everywhere. Pillars of this conspiracy were all put into place before the bu on was pressed with the Drosten PCR protocol and high ampliﬁcations to produce the cases and death certiﬁcate changes to secure illusory ‘Covid’ deaths. Mooney notes that normally two doctors were needed to certify a death, with one having to know the patient, and how the rules were changed in the spring of 2020 to allow one doctor to do this. In the same period ‘Covid deaths’ were decreed to be all cases where Covid-19 was put on the death certiﬁcate even without a positive test or any symptoms. Mooney asked: ‘How many of the 30,851 (as of January 15) care home resident deaths with Covid-19 on the certiﬁcate (32.4 per cent of all deaths so far) were based on an assumption, like that of my father? And what has that done to our national psyche?’All of them is the answer to the ﬁrst question and it has devastated and dismantled the national psyche, actually the global psyche, on a colossal scale. In the UK case and death data is compiled by organisations like Public Health England (PHE) and the Oﬃce for National Statistics (ONS). Mooney highlights the insane policy of counting a death from any cause as ‘Covid-19’ if this happens within 28 days of a positive test (with a test not testing for the ‘virus’) and she points out that ONS statistics reﬂect deaths ‘involving Covid’ ‘or due to Covid’ which meant in practice any death where ‘Covid-19’ was mentioned on the death certiﬁcate. She described the consequences of this fraud:

Most people will accept the narrative they are fed, so panicky governments here and in Europe witnessed the harsh measures enacted in totalitarian China and jumped into lockdown. Headlines about Covid deaths tolled like the knell that would bring doomsday to us all. Fear stalked our empty streets. Politicians parroted the frankly ridiculous aim of ‘zero Covid’ and shut down the economy, while most British people agreed that lockdown was essential and (astonishingly to me, as a patriotic Brit) even wanted more restrictions.

For what? Lies on death certificates? Never mind the grim toll of lives ruined, suicides, schools closed, rising inequality, depression, cancelled hospital treatments, cancer patients in a torture of waiting, poverty, economic devastation, loneliness, families kept apart, and so on. How many lives have been lost as a direct result of lockdown?


She said that we could join in a national chorus of shock and horror at reaching the 120,000 death toll which was surely certain to have been totally skewed all along, but what about the human cost of lockdown justiﬁed by these ‘death ﬁgures’? The British Medical Journal had reported a 1,493 percent increase in cases of children taken to Great Ormond Street Hospital with abusive head injuries alone and then there was the eﬀect on families:

Perhaps the most shocking thing about all this is that families have been kept apart – and obeyed the most irrational, changing rules at the whim of government – because they believed in the statistics. They succumbed to fear, which his generation rejected in that war fought for freedom. Dad (God rest his soul) would be angry. And so am I.


Another theme to watch is that in the winter months when there are more deaths from all causes they focus on ‘Covid’ deaths and in the summer when the British Lung Foundation says respiratory disease plummets by 80 percent they rage on about ‘cases’. Either way fascism on population is always the answer.

Nazi eugenics in the 21st century Elderly people in care homes have been isolated from their families month a er lonely month with no contact with relatives and grandchildren who were banned from seeing them. We were told that lockdown fascism was to ‘protect the vulnerable’ like elderly people. At the same time Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) orders were placed on their medical ﬁles so that if they needed resuscitation it wasn’t done and ‘Covid-19’ went on their death certiﬁcates. Old people were not being ‘protected’ they were being culled – murdered in truth. DNR orders were being decreed for disabled and young people with learning diﬃculties or psychological problems. The UK Care Quality Commission, a non-departmental body of the Department of Health and Social Care, found that 34 percent of those working in health and social care were pressured into placing ‘do not a empt cardiopulmonary resuscitation’ orders on ‘Covid’ patients who suﬀered from disabilities and learning diﬃculties without involving the patient or their families in the decision. UK judges ruled that an elderly woman with dementia should have the DNA-manipulating ‘Covid vaccine’ against her son’s wishes and that a man with severe learning diﬃculties should have the jab despite his family’s objections. Never mind that many had already died. The judiciary always supports doctors and government in fascist dictatorships. They wouldn’t dare do otherwise. A horriﬁc video was posted showing fascist oﬃcers from Los Angeles police forcibly giving the ‘Covid’ shot to women with special needs who were screaming that they didn’t want it. The same fascists are seen giving the jab to a sleeping elderly woman in a care home. This is straight out of the Nazi playbook. Hitler’s Nazis commi ed mass murder of the mentally ill and physically disabled throughout Germany and occupied territories in the programme that became known as Aktion T4, or just T4. Sabbatian-controlled Hitler and his grotesque crazies set out to kill those they considered useless and unnecessary. The Reich Commi ee for the Scientiﬁc Registering of Hereditary and Congenital Illnesses registered the births of babies identiﬁed by physicians to have ‘defects’. By 1941 alone more than 5,000 children were murdered by the state and it is estimated that in total the number of innocent people killed in Aktion T4 was between 275,000 and 300,000. Parents were told their children had been sent away for ‘special treatment’ never to return. It is rather pathetic to see claims about plans for new extermination camps being dismissed today when the same force behind current events did precisely that 80 years ago. Margaret Sanger was a Cult operative who used ‘birth control’ to sanitise her programme of eugenics. Organisations she founded became what is now Planned Parenthood. Sanger proposed that ‘the whole dysgenic population would have its choice of segregation or sterilization’. These included epileptics, ‘feeble- minded’, and prostitutes. Sanger opposed charity because it perpetuated ‘human waste‘. She reveals the Cult mentality and if anyone thinks that extermination camps are a ‘conspiracy theory’ their naivety is touching if breathtakingly stupid.  If you don’t believe that doctors can act with callous disregard for their patients it is worth considering that doctors and medical staﬀ agreed to put government-decreed DNR orders on medical ﬁles and do nothing when resuscitation is called for. I don’t know what you call such people in your house. In mine they are Nazis from the Josef Mengele School of Medicine. Phenomenal numbers of old people have died worldwide from the eﬀects of lockdown, depression, lack of treatment, the ‘vaccine’ (more later) and losing the will to live. A common response at the start of the manufactured pandemic was to remove old people from hospital beds and transfer them to nursing homes. The decision would result in a mass cull of elderly people in those homes through lack of treatment – not ‘Covid’. Care home whistleblowers have told how once the ‘Covid’ era began doctors would not come to their homes to treat patients and they were begging for drugs like antibiotics that o en never came. The most infamous example was ordered by New York governor Andrew Cuomo, brother of a moronic CNN host, who amazingly was given an Emmy Award for his handling of the ‘Covid crisis’ by the ridiculous Wokers that hand them out. Just how ridiculous could be seen in February, 2021, when a Department of Justice and FBI investigation began into how thousands of old people in New York died in nursing homes a er being discharged from hospital to make way for ‘Covid’ patients on Cuomo’s say-so – and how he and his staﬀ covered up these facts. This couldn’t have happened to a nicer psychopath. Even then there was a ‘Covid’ spin. Reports said that thousands of old people who tested positive for ‘Covid’ in hospital were transferred to nursing homes to both die of ‘Covid’ and transmit it to others. No – they were in hospital because they were ill and the fact that they tested positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ is irrelevant. They were ill o en with respiratory diseases ubiquitous in old people near the end of their lives. Their transfer out of hospital meant that their treatment stopped and many would go on to die.

They’re old. Who gives a damn? I have exposed in the books for decades the Cult plan to cull the world’s old people and even to introduce at some point what they call a ‘demise pill’ which at a certain age everyone would take and be out of here by law. In March, 2021, Spain legalised euthanasia and assisted suicide following the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Canada on the Tiptoe to the demise pill. Treatment of old people by many ‘care’ homes has been a disgrace in the ‘Covid’ era. There are many, many, caring staﬀ – I know some. There have, however, been legions of stories about callous treatment of old people and their families. Police were called when families came to take their loved ones home in the light of isolation that was killing them. They became prisoners of the state. Care home residents in insane, fascist Ontario, Canada, were not allowed to leave their room once the ‘Covid’ hoax began. UK staﬀ have even wheeled elderly people away from windows where family members were talking with them. Oriana Criscuolo from Stockport in the English North West dropped oﬀ some things for her 80-year-old father who has Parkinson’s disease and dementia and she wanted to wave to him through a ground-ﬂoor window. She was told that was ‘illegal’. When she went anyway they closed the curtains in the middle of the day. Oriana said:

It’s just unbelievable. I cannot understand how care home staff – people who are being paid to care – have become so uncaring. Their behaviour is inhumane and cruel. It’s beyond belief. She was right and this was not a one-oﬀ. What a way to end your life in such loveless circumstances. UK registered nurse Nicky Millen, a proper old school nurse for 40 years, said that when she started her career care was based on dignity, choice, compassion and empathy. Now she said ‘the things that are important to me have gone out of the window.’ She was appalled that people were dying without their loved ones and saying goodbye on iPads. Nicky described how a distressed 89-year-old lady stroked her face and asked her ‘how many paracetamol would it take to ﬁnish me oﬀ’. Life was no longer worth living while not seeing her family. Nicky said she was humiliated in front of the ward staﬀ and patients for le ing the lady stroke her face and giving her a cuddle. Such is the dehumanisation that the ‘Covid’ hoax has brought to the surface. Nicky worked in care homes where patients told her they were being held prisoner. ‘I want to live until I die’, one said to her. ‘I had a lady in tears because she hadn’t seen her great-grandson.’ Nicky was compassionate old school meeting psychopathic New Normal. She also said she had worked on a ‘Covid’ ward with no ‘Covid’ patients. Jewish writer Shai Held wrote an article in March, 2020, which was headlined ‘The Staggering, Heartless Cruelty Toward the Elderly’. What he described was happening from the earliest days of lockdown. He said ‘the elderly’ were considered a group and not unique individuals (the way of the Woke). Shai Held said:

Notice how the all-too-familiar rhetoric of dehumanization works: ‘The elderly’ are bunched together as a faceless mass, all of them considered culprits and thus effectively deserving of the suffering the pandemic will inflict upon them. Lost entirely is the fact that the elderly are individual human beings, each with a distinctive face and voice, each with hopes and dreams, memories and regrets, friendships and marriages, loves lost and loves sustained.


‘The elderly’ have become another dehumanised group for which anything goes and for many that has resulted in cold disregard for their rights and their life. The distinctive face that Held talks about is designed to be deleted by masks until everyone is part of a faceless mass. ‘War-zone’ hospitals myth Again and again medical professionals have told me what was really going on and how hospitals ‘overrun like war zones’ according to the media were virtually empty. The mantra from medical whistleblowers was please don’t use my name or my career is over. Citizen journalists around the world sneaked into hospitals to ﬁlm evidence exposing the ‘war-zone’ lie. They really were largely empty with closed wards and operating theatres. I met a hospital worker in my town on the Isle of Wight during the ﬁrst lockdown in 2020 who said the only island hospital had never been so quiet. Lockdown was justiﬁed by the psychopaths to stop hospitals being overrun. At the same time that the island hospital was near-empty the military arrived here to provide extra beds. It was all propaganda to ramp up the fear to ensure compliance with fascism as were never-used temporary hospitals with thousands of beds known as Nightingales and never-used make-shi mortuaries opened by the criminal UK government. A man who helped to install those extra island beds a ributed to the army said they were never used and the hospital was empty. Doctors and nurses ‘stood around talking or on their phones, wandering down to us to see what we were doing’. There were no masks or social distancing. He accused the useless local island paper, the County Press, of ‘pumping the fear as if our hospital was overrun and we only have one so it should have been’. He described ambulances parked up with crews outside in deck chairs. When his brother called an ambulance he was told there was a two- hour backlog which he called ‘bullshit’. An old lady on the island fell ‘and was in a bad way’, but a caller who rang for an ambulance was told the situation wasn’t urgent enough. Ambulance stations were working under capacity while people would hear ambulances with sirens blaring driving through the streets. When those living near the stations realised what was going on they would follow them as they le , circulated around an urban area with the sirens going, and then came back without stopping. All this was to increase levels of fear and the same goes for the ‘ventilator shortage crisis’ that cost tens of millions for hastily produced ventilators never to be used. Ambulance crews that agreed to be exploited in this way for fear propaganda might ﬁnd themselves a mirror. I wish them well with that. Empty hospitals were the obvious consequence of treatment and diagnoses of non-’Covid’ conditions cancelled and those involved handed a death sentence. People have been dying at home from undiagnosed and untreated cancer, heart disease and other life- threatening conditions to allow empty hospitals to deal with a ‘pandemic’ that wasn’t happening.

Death of the innocent ‘War-zones’ have been laying oﬀ nursing staﬀ, even doctors where they can. There was no work for them. Lockdown was justiﬁed by saving lives and protecting the vulnerable they were actually killing with DNR orders and preventing empty hospitals being ‘overrun’. In Britain the mantra of stay at home to ‘save the NHS’ was everywhere and across the world the same story was being sold when it was all lies. Two California doctors, Dan Erickson and Artin Massihi at Accelerated Urgent Care in Bakersﬁeld, held a news conference in April, 2020, to say that intensive care units in California were ‘empty, essentially’, with hospitals shu ing ﬂoors, not treating patients and laying oﬀ doctors. The California health system was working at minimum capacity ‘ge ing rid of doctors because we just don’t have the volume’. They said that people with conditions such as heart disease and cancer were not coming to hospital out of fear of ‘Covid- 19’. Their video was deleted by Susan Wojcicki’s Cult-owned YouTube a er reaching ﬁve million views. Florida governor Ron Desantis, who rejected the severe lockdowns of other states and is being targeted for doing so, said that in March, 2020, every US governor was given models claiming they would run out of hospital beds in days. That was never going to happen and the ‘modellers’ knew it. Deceit can be found at every level of the system. Urgent children’s operations were cancelled including fracture repairs and biopsies to spot cancer. Eric Nicholls, a consultant paediatrician, said ‘this is obviously concerning and we need to return to normal operating and to increase capacity as soon as possible’. Psychopaths in power were rather less concerned because they are psychopaths. Deletion of urgent care and diagnosis has been happening all over the world and how many kids and others have died as a result of the actions of these cold and heartless lunatics dictating ‘health’ policy? The number must be stratospheric. Richard Sullivan, professor of cancer and global health at King’s College London, said people feared ‘Covid’ more than cancer such was the campaign of fear. ‘Years of lost life will be quite dramatic’, Sullivan said, with ‘a huge amount of avoidable mortality’. Sarah Woolnough, executive director for policy at Cancer Research UK, said there had been a 75 percent drop in urgent referrals to hospitals by family doctors of people with suspected cancer. Sullivan said that ‘a lot of services have had to scale back – we’ve seen a dramatic decrease in the amount of elective cancer surgery’. Lockdown deaths worldwide has been absolutely fantastic with the New York Post reporting how data conﬁrmed that ‘lockdowns end more lives than they save’:

There was a sharp decline in visits to emergency rooms and an increase in fatal heart attacks because patients didn’t receive prompt treatment. Many fewer people were screened for cancer. Social isolation contributed to excess deaths from dementia and Alzheimer’s.

Researchers predicted that the social and economic upheaval would lead to tens of thousands of “deaths of despair” from drug overdoses, alcoholism and suicide. As unemployment surged and mental-health and substance-abuse treatment programs were interrupted, the reported levels of anxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts increased dramatically, as did alcohol sales and fatal drug overdoses.


This has been happening while nurses and other staﬀ had so much time on their hands in the ‘war-zones’ that Tic-Tok dancing videos began appearing across the Internet with medical staﬀ dancing around in empty wards and corridors as people died at home from causes that would normally have been treated in hospital.

Mentions in dispatches One brave and truth-commi ed whistleblower was Louise Hampton, a call handler with the UK NHS who made a viral Internet video saying she had done ‘fuck all’ during the ‘pandemic’ which was ‘a load of bollocks’. She said that ‘Covid-19’ was rebranded ﬂu and of course she lost her job. This is what happens in the medical and endless other professions now when you tell the truth. Louise ﬁlmed inside ‘war-zone’ accident and emergency departments to show they were empty and I mean empty as in no one there. The mainstream media could have done the same and blown the gaﬀ on the whole conspiracy. They haven’t to their eternal shame. Not that most ‘journalists’ seem capable of manifesting shame as with the psychopaths they slavishly repeat without question. The relative few who were admi ed with serious health problems were le to die alone with no loved ones allowed to see them because of ‘Covid’ rules and they included kids dying without the comfort of mum and dad at their bedside while the evil behind this couldn’t give a damn. It was all good fun to them. A Sco ish NHS staﬀ nurse publicly quit in the spring of 2021 saying: ‘I can no longer be part of the lies and the corruption by the government.’ She said hospitals ‘aren’t full, the beds aren’t full, beds have been shut, wards have been shut’. Hospitals were never busy throughout ‘Covid’. The staﬀ nurse said that Nicola Sturgeon, tragically the leader of the Sco ish government, was on television saying save the hospitals and the NHS – ‘but the beds are empty’ and ‘we’ve not seen ﬂu, we always see ﬂu every year’. She wrote to government and spoke with her union Unison (the unions are Cult-compromised and useless, but nothing changed. Many of her colleagues were scared of losing their jobs if they spoke out as they wanted to. She said nursing staﬀ were being aﬀected by wearing masks all day and ‘my head is spli ing every shi from wearing a mask’. The NHS is part of the fascist tyranny and must be dismantled so we can start again with human beings in charge. (Ironically, hospitals were reported to be busier again when oﬃcial ‘Covid’ cases fell in spring/summer of 2021 and many other conditions required treatment at the same time as the fake vaccine rollout.) I will cover the ‘Covid vaccine’ scam in detail later, but it is another indicator of the sickening disregard for human life that I am highlighting here. The DNA-manipulating concoctions do not fulﬁl the deﬁnition of a ‘vaccine’, have never been used on humans before and were given only emergency approval because trials were not completed and they continued using the unknowing public. The result was what a NHS senior nurse with responsibility for ‘vaccine’ procedure said was ‘genocide’. She said the ‘vaccines’ were not ‘vaccines’. They had not been shown to be safe and claims about their eﬀectiveness by drug companies were ‘poetic licence’. She described what was happening as a ‘horrid act of human annihilation’. The nurse said that management had instigated a policy of not providing a Patient Information Leaﬂet (PIL) before people were ‘vaccinated’ even though health care professionals are supposed to do this according to protocol. Patients should also be told that they are taking part in an ongoing clinical trial. Her challenges to what is happening had seen her excluded from meetings and ridiculed in others. She said she was told to ‘watch my step … or I would ﬁnd myself surplus to requirements’. The nurse, who spoke anonymously in fear of her career, said she asked her NHS manager why he/she was content with taking part in genocide against those having the ‘vaccines’. The reply was that everyone had to play their part and to ‘put up, shut up, and get it done’. Government was ‘leaning heavily’ on NHS management which was clearly leaning heavily on staﬀ. This is how the global ‘medical’ hierarchy operates and it starts with the Cult and its World Health Organization.  She told the story of a doctor who had the Pﬁzer jab and when questioned had no idea what was in it. The doctor had never read the literature. We have to stop treating doctors as intellectual giants when so many are moral and medical pygmies. The doctor did not even know that the ‘vaccines’ were not fully approved or that their trials were ongoing. They were, however, asking their patients if they minded taking part in follow-ups for research purposes – yes, the ongoing clinical trial. The nurse said the doctor’s ignorance was not rare and she had spoken to a hospital consultant who had the jab without any idea of the background or that the ‘trials’ had not been completed. Nurses and pharmacists had shown the same ignorance. ‘My NHS colleagues have forsaken their duty of care, broken their code of conduct – Hippocratic Oath – and have been brainwashed just the same as the majority of the UK public through propaganda …’ She said she had not been able to recruit a single NHS colleague, doctor, nurse or pharmacist to stand with her and speak out. Her union had refused to help. She said that if the genocide came to light she would not hesitate to give evidence at a Nuremberg-type trial against those in power who could have aﬀected the outcomes but didn’t.

And all for what? To put the nonsense into perspective let’s say the ‘virus’ does exist and let’s go completely crazy and accept that the oﬃcial manipulated ﬁgures for cases and deaths are accurate. Even then a study by Stanford University epidemiologist Dr John Ioannidis published on the World Health Organization website produced an average infection to fatality rate of … 0.23 percent! Ioannidis said: ‘If one could sample equally from all locations globally, the median infection fatality rate might even be substantially lower than the 0.23% observed in my analysis.’ For healthy people under 70 it was … 0.05 percent! This compares with the 3.4 percent claimed by the Cult-owned World Health Organization when the hoax was ﬁrst played and maximum fear needed to be generated. An updated Stanford study in April, 2021, put the ‘infection’ to ‘fatality’ rate at just 0.15 percent. Another team of scientists led by Megan O’Driscoll and Henrik Salje studied data from 45 countries and published their ﬁndings on the Nature website. For children and young people the ﬁgure is so small it virtually does not register although authorities will be hyping dangers to the young when they introduce DNA- manipulating ‘vaccines’ for children. The O’Driscoll study produced an average infection-fatality ﬁgure of 0.003 for children from birth to four; 0.001 for 5 to 14; 0.003 for 15 to 19; and it was still only 0.456 up to 64. To claim that children must be ‘vaccinated’ to protect them from ‘Covid’ is an obvious lie and so there must be another reason and there is. What’s more the average age of a ‘Covid’ death is akin to the average age that people die in general. The average age of death in England is about 80 for men and 83 for women. The average age of death from alleged ‘Covid’ is between 82 and 83. California doctors, Dan Erickson and Artin Massihi, said at their April media conference that projection models of millions of deaths had been ‘woefully inaccurate’. They produced detailed ﬁgures showing that Californians had a 0.03 chance of dying from ‘Covid’ based on the number of people who tested positive (with a test not testing for the ‘virus’). Erickson said there was a 0.1 percent chance of dying from ‘Covid’ in the state of New York, not just the city, and a 0.05 percent chance in Spain, a centre of ‘Covid-19’ hysteria at one stage. The Stanford studies supported the doctors’ data with fatality rate estimates of 0.23 and 0.15 percent. How close are these ﬁgures to my estimate of zero? Death-rate ﬁgures claimed by the World Health Organization at the start of the hoax were some 15 times higher. The California doctors said there was no justiﬁcation for lockdowns and the economic devastation they caused. Everything they had ever learned about quarantine was that you quarantine the sick and not the healthy. They had never seen this before and it made no medical sense.  Why in the in the light of all this would governments and medical systems the world over say that billions must go under house arrest; lose their livelihood; in many cases lose their mind, their health and their life; force people to wear masks dangerous to health and psychology; make human interaction and even family interaction a criminal oﬀence; ban travel; close restaurants, bars, watching live sport, concerts, theatre, and any activity involving human togetherness and discourse; and closing schools to isolate children from their friends and cause many to commit suicide in acts of hopelessness and despair? The California doctors said lockdown consequences included increased child abuse, partner abuse, alcoholism, depression, and other impacts they were seeing every day. Who would do that to the entire human race if not mentally-ill psychopaths of almost unimaginable extremes like Bill Gates? We must face the reality of what we are dealing with and come out of denial. Fascism and tyranny are made possible only by the target population submi ing and acquiescing to fascism and tyranny. The whole of human history shows that to be true. Most people naively and unquestioning believed what they were told about a ‘deadly virus’ and meekly and weakly submi ed to house arrest. Those who didn’t believe it – at least in total – still submi ed in fear of the consequences of not doing so. For the rest who wouldn’t submit draconian ﬁnes have been imposed, brutal policing by psychopaths for psychopaths, and condemnation from the meek and weak who condemn the Pushbackers on behalf of the very force that has them, too, in its gunsights. ‘Pathetic’ does not even begin to suﬃce. Britain’s brainless ‘Health’ Secretary Ma Hancock warned anyone lying to border oﬃcials about returning from a list of ‘hotspot’ countries could face a jail sentence of up to ten years which is more than for racially-aggravated assault, incest and a empting to have sex with a child under 13. Hancock is a lunatic, but he has the state apparatus behind him in a Cult-led chain reaction and the same with UK ‘Vaccine Minister’ Nadhim Zahawi, a prominent member of the mega-Cult secret society, Le Cercle, which featured in my earlier books. The Cult enforces its will on governments and medical systems; government and medical systems enforce their will on business and police; business enforces its will on staﬀ who enforce it on customers; police enforce the will of the Cult on the population and play their essential part in creating a world of fascist control that their own children and grandchildren will have to live in their entire lives. It is a hierarchical pyramid of imposition and acquiescence and, yes indeedy, of clinical insanity.  Does anyone bright enough to read this book have to ask what the answer is? I think not, but I will reveal it anyway in the fewest of syllables: Tell the psychos and their moronic lackeys to fuck oﬀ and let’s get on with our lives. We are many – They are few. CHAPTER SEVEN

 War on your mind

One believes things because one has been conditioned to believe  them  Aldous Huxley, Brave New World



Ihave described the ‘Covid’ hoax as a ‘Psyop’ and that is true in  every sense and on every level in accordance with the deﬁnition of that term which is psychological warfare. Break down the ‘Covid pandemic’ to the foundation themes and it is psychological warfare on the human individual and collective mind.  The same can be said for the entire human belief system involving every subject you can imagine. Huxley was right in his contention that people believe what they are conditioned to believe and this comes from the repetition throughout their lives of the same falsehoods. They spew from government, corporations, media and endless streams of ‘experts’ telling you what the Cult wants you to believe and o en believing it themselves (although far from always). ‘Experts’ are rewarded with ‘prestigious’ jobs and titles and as agents of perceptual programming with regular access to the media. The Cult has to control the narrative – control information – or they lose control of the vital, crucial, without-which-they-cannot-prevail public perception of reality. The foundation of that control today is the Internet made possible by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the incredibly sinister technological arm of the Pentagon. The Internet is the result of military technology. DARPA openly brags about establishing the Internet which has been a long-term project to lasso the minds of the global population. I have said for decades the plan is to control information to such an extreme that eventually no one would see or hear anything that the Cult does not approve. We are closing in on that end with ferocious censorship since the ‘Covid’ hoax began and in my case it started back in the 1990s in terms of books and speaking venues. I had to create my own publishing company in 1995 precisely because no one else would publish my books even then. I think they’re all still running.

Cult Internet To secure total control of information they needed the Internet in which pre-programmed algorithms can seek out ‘unclean’ content for deletion and even stop it being posted in the ﬁrst place. The Cult had to dismantle print and non-Internet broadcast media to ensure the transfer of information to the appropriate-named ‘Web’ – a critical expression of the Cult web. We’ve seen the ever-quickening demise of traditional media and control of what is le by a tiny number of corporations operating worldwide. Independent journalism in the mainstream is already dead and never was that more obvious than since the turn of 2020. The Cult wants all information communicated via the Internet to globally censor and allow the plug to be pulled any time. Lockdowns and forced isolation has meant that communication between people has been through electronic means and no longer through face-to-face discourse and discussion. Cult psychopaths have targeted the bars, restaurants, sport, venues and meeting places in general for this reason. None of this is by chance and it’s to stop people gathering in any kind of privacy or number while being able to track and monitor all Internet communications and block them as necessary. Even private messages between individuals have been censored by these fascists that control Cult fronts like Facebook, Twi er, Google and YouTube which are all oﬃcially run by Sabbatian place-people and from the background by higher-level Sabbatian place people. Facebook, Google, Amazon and their like were seed-funded and supported into existence with money-no-object infusions of funds either directly or indirectly from DARPA and CIA technology arm In-Q-Tel. The Cult plays the long game and prepares very carefully for big plays like ‘Covid’. Amazon is another front in the psychological war and pre y much controls the global market in book sales and increasingly publishing. Amazon’s limitless funds have deleted fantastic numbers of independent publishers to seize global domination on the way to deciding which books can be sold and circulated and which cannot. Moves in that direction are already happening. Amazon’s leading light Jeﬀ Bezos is the grandson of Lawrence Preston Gise who worked with DARPA predecessor ARPA. Amazon has big connections to the CIA and the Pentagon. The plan I have long described went like this:

1. Employ military technology to establish the Internet.

2. Sell the Internet as a place where people can freely communicate without censorship and allow that to happen until the Net becomes the central and irreversible pillar of human society. If the Internet had been highly censored from the start many would have rejected it.

3. Fund and manipulate major corporations into being to control the circulation of information on your Internet using cover stories about geeks in garages to explain how they came about. Give them unlimited funds to expand rapidly with no need to make a proﬁt for years while non-Cult companies who need to balance the books cannot compete. You know that in these circumstances your Googles, YouTubes, Facebooks and Amazons are going to secure near monopolies by either crushing or buying up the opposition.

4. Allow freedom of expression on both the Internet and communication platforms to draw people in until the Internet is the central and irreversible pillar of human society and your communication corporations have reached a stage of near monopoly domination.

5. Then unleash your always-planned frenzy of censorship on the basis of ‘where else are you going to go?’ and continue to expand that until nothing remains that the Cult does not want its human targets to see.


 The process was timed to hit the ‘Covid’ hoax to ensure the best chance possible of controlling the narrative which they knew they had to do at all costs. They were, a er all, about to unleash a ‘deadly virus’ that didn’t really exist. If you do that in an environment of free-ﬂowing information and opinion you would be dead in the water before you could say Gates is a psychopath. The network was in place through which the Cult-created-and-owned World Health Organization could dictate the ‘Covid’ narrative and response policy slavishly supported by Cult-owned Internet communication giants and mainstream media while those telling a diﬀerent story were censored. Google, YouTube, Facebook and Twi er openly announced that they would do this. What else would we expect from Cult-owned operations like Facebook which former executives have conﬁrmed set out to make the platform more addictive than cigare es and coldly manipulates emotions of its users to sow division between people and groups and scramble the minds of the young? If Zuckerberg lives out the rest of his life without going to jail for crimes against humanity, and most emphatically against the young, it will be a travesty of justice. Still, no ma er, cause and eﬀect will catch up with him eventually and the same with Sergey Brin and Larry Page at Google with its CEO Sundar Pichai who ﬁx the Google search results to promote Cult narratives and hide the opposition. Put the same key words into Google and other search engines like DuckDuckGo and you will see how diﬀerent results can be. Wikipedia is another intensely biased ‘encyclopaedia’ which skews its content to the Cult agenda. YouTube links to Wikipedia’s version of ‘Covid’ and ‘climate change’ on video pages in which experts in their ﬁeld oﬀer a diﬀerent opinion (even that is increasingly rare with Wojcicki censorship). Into this ‘Covid’ silence- them network must be added government media censors, sorry ‘regulators’, such as Ofcom in the UK which imposed tyrannical restrictions on British broadcasters that had the eﬀect of banning me from ever appearing. Just to debate with me about my evidence and views on ‘Covid’ would mean breaking the fascistic impositions of Ofcom and its CEO career government bureaucrat Melanie Dawes. Gutless British broadcasters tremble at the very thought of fascist Ofcom.

Psychos behind ‘Covid’ The reason for the ‘Covid’ catastrophe in all its facets and forms can be seen by whom and what is driving the policies worldwide in such a coordinated way. Decisions are not being made to protect health, but to target psychology. The dominant group guiding and ‘advising’ government policy are not medical professionals. They are psychologists and behavioural scientists. Every major country has its own version of this phenomenon and I’ll use the British example to show how it works. In many ways the British version has been aﬀecting the wider world in the form of the huge behaviour manipulation network in the UK which operates in other countries. The network involves private companies, government, intelligence and military. The Cabinet Oﬃce is at the centre of the government ‘Covid’ Psyop and part-owns, with ‘innovation charity’ Nesta, the Behavioural Insights Team (BIT) which claims to be independent of government but patently isn’t. The BIT was established in 2010 and its job is to manipulate the psyche of the population to acquiesce to government demands and so much more. It is also known as the ‘Nudge Unit’, a name inspired by the 2009 book by two ultra- Zionists, Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler, called Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness. The book, as with the Behavioural Insights Team, seeks to ‘nudge’ behaviour (manipulate it) to make the public follow pa erns of action and perception that suit those in authority (the Cult). Sunstein is so skilled at this that he advises the World Health Organization and the UK Behavioural Insights Team and was Administrator of the White House Oﬃce of Information and Regulatory Aﬀairs in the Obama administration. Biden appointed him to the Department of Homeland Security – another ultra-Zionist in the fold to oversee new immigration laws which is another policy the Cult wants to control. Sunstein is desperate to silence anyone exposing conspiracies and co-authored a 2008 report on the subject in which suggestions were oﬀered to ban ‘conspiracy theorizing’ or impose ‘some kind of tax, ﬁnancial or otherwise, on those who disseminate such theories’. I guess a psychiatrist’s chair is out of the question?  Sunstein’s mate Richard Thaler, an ‘academic aﬃliate’ of the UK Behavioural Insights Team, is a proponent of ‘behavioural economics’ which is deﬁned as the study of ‘the eﬀects of psychological, cognitive, emotional, cultural and social factors on the decisions of individuals and institutions’. Study the eﬀects so they can be manipulated to be what you want them to be. Other leading names in the development of behavioural economics are ultra- Zionists Daniel Kahneman and Robert J. Shiller and they, with Thaler, won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for their work in this ﬁeld. The Behavioural Insights Team is operating at the heart of the UK government and has expanded globally through partnerships with several universities including Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge, University College London (UCL) and Pennsylvania. They claim to have ‘trained’ (reframed) 20,000 civil servants and run more than 750 projects involving 400 randomised controlled trials in dozens of countries’ as another version of mind reframers Common Purpose. BIT works from its oﬃce in New York with cities and their agencies, as well as other partners, across the United States and Canada – this is a company part-owned by the British government Cabinet Oﬃce. An executive order by President Cult-servant Obama established a US Social and Behavioral Sciences Team in 2015. They all have the same reason for being and that’s to brainwash the population directly and by brainwashing those in positions of authority.

‘Covid’ mind game Another prime aspect of the UK mind-control network is the ‘independent’ [joke] Scientiﬁc Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (SPI-B) which ‘provides behavioural science advice aimed at anticipating and helping people adhere to interventions that are recommended by medical or epidemiological experts’. That means manipulating public perception and behaviour to do whatever government tells them to do. It’s disgusting and if they really want the public to be ‘safe’ this lot should all be under lock and key. According to the government website SPI-B consists of ‘behavioural scientists, health and social psychologists, anthropologists and historians’ and advises the Whi y-Vallance-led Scientiﬁc Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) which in turn advises the government on ‘the science’ (it doesn’t) and ‘Covid’ policy. When politicians say they are being guided by ‘the science’ this is the rabble in each country they are talking about and that ‘science’ is dominated by behaviour manipulators to enforce government fascism through public compliance. The Behaviour Insight Team is headed by psychologist David Solomon Halpern, a visiting professor at King’s College London, and connects with a national and global web of other civilian and military organisations as the Cult moves towards its goal of fusing them into one fascistic whole in every country through its ‘Fusion Doctrine’. The behaviour manipulation network involves, but is not conﬁned to, the Foreign Oﬃce; National Security Council; government communications headquarters (GCHQ); MI5; MI6; the Cabinet Oﬃce-based Media Monitoring Unit; and the Rapid Response Unit which ‘monitors digital trends to spot emerging issues; including misinformation and disinformation; and identiﬁes the best way to respond’.  There is also the 77th Brigade of the UK military which operates like the notorious Israeli military’s Unit 8200 in manipulating information and discussion on the Internet by posing as members of the public to promote the narrative and discredit those who challenge it. Here we have the military seeking to manipulate domestic public opinion while the Nazis in government are ﬁne with that. Conservative Member of Parliament Tobias Ellwood, an advocate of lockdown and control through ‘vaccine passports’, is a Lieutenant Colonel reservist in the 77th Brigade which connects with the military operation jHub, the ‘innovation centre’ for the Ministry of Defence and Strategic Command. jHub has also been involved with the civilian National Health Service (NHS) in ‘symptom tracing’ the population. The NHS is a key part of this mind control network and produced a document in December, 2020, explaining to staﬀ how to use psychological manipulation with diﬀerent groups and ages to get them to have the DNA-manipulating ‘Covid vaccine’ that’s designed to cumulatively rewrite human genetics. The document, called ‘Optimising Vaccination Roll Out – Do’s and Dont’s for all messaging, documents and “communications” in the widest sense’, was published by NHS England and the NHS Improvement Behaviour Change Unit in partnership with Public Health England and Warwick Business School. I hear the mantra about ‘save the NHS’ and ‘protect the NHS’ when we need to scrap the NHS and start again. The current version is far too corrupt, far too anti-human and totally compromised by Cult operatives and their assets. UK government broadcast media censor Ofcom will connect into this web – as will the BBC with its tremendous Ofcom inﬂuence – to control what the public see and hear and dictate mass perception. Nuremberg trials must include personnel from all these organisations.

The fear factor The ‘Covid’ hoax has led to the creation of the UK Cabinet Oﬃce- connected Joint Biosecurity Centre (JBC) which is oﬃcially described as providing ‘expert advice on pandemics’ using its independent [all Cult operations are ‘independent’] analytical function to provide real-time analysis about infection outbreaks to identify and respond to outbreaks of Covid-19’. Another role is to advise the government on a response to spikes in infections – ‘for example by closing schools or workplaces in local areas where infection levels have risen’. Put another way, promoting the Cult agenda. The Joint Biosecurity Centre is modelled on the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre which analyses intelligence to set ‘terrorism threat levels’ and here again you see the fusion of civilian and military operations and intelligence that has led to military intelligence producing documents about ‘vaccine hesitancy’ and how it can be combated. Domestic civilian ma ers and opinions should not be the business of the military. The Joint Biosecurity Centre is headed by Tom Hurd, director general of the Oﬃce for Security and Counter-Terrorism from the establishment-to-its-ﬁngertips Hurd family. His father is former Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd. How coincidental that Tom Hurd went to the elite Eton College and Oxford University with Boris Johnson. Imperial College with its ridiculous computer modeller Neil Ferguson will connect with this gigantic web that will itself interconnect with similar set-ups in other major and not so major countries. Compared with this Cult network the politicians, be they Boris Johnson, Donald Trump or Joe Biden, are bit-part players ‘following the science’. The network of psychologists was on the ‘Covid’ case from the start with the aim of generating maximum fear of the ‘virus’ to ensure compliance by the population. A government behavioural science group known as SPI-B produced a paper in March, 2020, for discussion by the main government science advisory group known as SAGE. It was headed ‘Options for increasing adherence to social distancing measures’ and it said the following in a section headed ‘Persuasion’:

• A substantial number of people still do not feel suﬃciently personally threatened; it could be that they are reassured by the low death rate in their demographic group, although levels of concern may be rising. Having a good understanding of the risk has been found to be positively associated with adoption of COVID-19 social distancing measures in Hong Kong.

• The perceived level of personal threat needs to be increased among those who are complacent, using hard-hi ing evaluation of options for increasing social distancing emotional messaging. To be eﬀective this must also empower people by making clear the actions they can take to reduce the threat.

• Responsibility to others: There seems to be insuﬃcient understanding of, or feelings of responsibility about, people’s role in transmi ing the infection to others … Messaging about actions need to be framed positively in terms of protecting oneself and the community, and increase conﬁdence that they will be eﬀective.

• Some people will be more persuaded by appeals to play by the rules, some by duty to the community, and some to personal risk. All these diﬀerent approaches are needed. The messaging also needs to take account of the realities of diﬀerent people’s lives. Messaging needs to take account of the diﬀerent motivational levers and circumstances of diﬀerent people.

 All this could be achieved the SPI-B psychologists said by using the media to increase the sense of personal threat which translates as terrify the shit out of the population, including children, so they all do what we want. That’s not happened has it? Those excuses for ‘journalists’ who wouldn’t know journalism if it bit them on the arse (the great majority) have played their crucial part in serving this Cult- government Psyop to enslave their own kids and grandkids. How they live with themselves I have no idea. The psychological war has been underpinned by constant government ‘Covid’ propaganda in almost every television and radio ad break, plus the Internet and print media, which has pounded out the fear with taxpayers footing the bill for their own programming. The result has been people terriﬁed of a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist or one with a tiny fatality rate even if you believe it does. People walk down the street and around the shops wearing face-nappies damaging their health and psychology while others report those who refuse to be that naïve to the police who turn up in their own face-nappies. I had a cameraman come to my ﬂat and he was so frightened of ‘Covid’ he came in wearing a mask and refused to shake my hand in case he caught something. He had – naïveitis – and the thought that he worked in the mainstream media was both depressing and made his behaviour perfectly explainable. The fear which has gripped the minds of so many and frozen them into compliance has been carefully cultivated by these psychologists who are really psychopaths. If lives get destroyed and a lot of young people commit suicide it shows our plan is working. SPI-B then turned to compulsion on the public to comply. ‘With adequate preparation, rapid change can be achieved’, it said. Some countries had introduced mandatory self-isolation on a wide scale without evidence of major public unrest and a large majority of the UK’s population appeared to be supportive of more coercive measures with 64 percent of adults saying they would support pu ing London under a lockdown (watch the ‘polls’ which are designed to make people believe that public opinion is in favour or against whatever the subject in hand).  For ‘aggressive protective measures’ to be eﬀective, the SPI-B paper said, special a ention should be devoted to those population groups that are more at risk. Translated from the Orwellian this means making the rest of population feel guilty for not protecting the ‘vulnerable’ such as old people which the Cult and its agencies were about to kill on an industrial scale with lockdown, lack of treatment and the Gates ‘vaccine’. Psychopath psychologists sold their guilt-trip so comprehensively that Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis reported that children were apologising (from a distance) to their parents and grandparents for bringing ‘Covid’ into their homes and ge ing them sick. ‘… These apologies are just some of the last words that loved ones will ever hear as they die alone,’ she said. Gut-wrenchingly Solis then used this childhood tragedy to tell children to stay at home and ‘keep your loved ones alive’. Imagine heaping such potentially life-long guilt on a kid when it has absolutely nothing to do with them. These people are deeply disturbed and the psychologists behind this even more so.

Uncivil war – divide and rule Professional mind-controllers at SPI-B wanted the media to increase a sense of responsibility to others (do as you’re told) and promote ‘positive messaging’ for those actions while in contrast to invoke ‘social disapproval’ by the unquestioning, obedient, community of anyone with a mind of their own. Again the compliant Goebbels-like media obliged. This is an old, old, trick employed by tyrannies the world over throughout human history. You get the target population to keep the target population in line – your line. SPI-B said this could ‘play an important role in preventing anti-social behaviour or discouraging failure to enact pro-social behaviour’. For ‘anti-social’ in the Orwellian parlance of SPI-B see any behaviour that government doesn’t approve. SPI-B recommendations said that ‘social disapproval’ should be accompanied by clear messaging and promotion of strong collective identity – hence the government and celebrity mantra of ‘we’re all in this together’. Sure we are. The mind doctors have such contempt for their targets that they think some clueless comedian, actor or singer telling them to do what the government wants will be enough to win them over. We have had UK comedian Lenny Henry, actor Michael Caine and singer Elton John wheeled out to serve the propagandists by urging people to have the DNA-manipulating ‘Covid’ non-’vaccine’. The role of Henry and fellow black celebrities in seeking to coax a ‘vaccine’ reluctant black community into doing the government’s will was especially stomach-turning. An emotion-manipulating script and carefully edited video featuring these black ‘celebs’ was such an insult to the intelligence of black people and where’s the self-respect of those involved selling their souls to a fascist government agenda? Henry said he heard black people’s ‘legitimate worries and concerns’, but people must ‘trust the facts’ when they were doing exactly that by not having the ‘vaccine’. They had to include the obligatory reference to Black Lives Ma er with the line … ‘Don’t let coronavirus cost even more black lives – because we ma er’. My god, it was pathetic. ‘I know the vaccine is safe and what it does.’ How? ‘I’m a comedian and it says so in my script.’ SPI-B said social disapproval needed to be carefully managed to avoid victimisation, scapegoating and misdirected criticism, but they knew that their ‘recommendations’ would lead to exactly that and the media were speciﬁcally used to stir-up the divide-and-conquer hostility. Those who conform like good li le baa, baas, are praised while those who have seen through the tidal wave of lies are ‘Covidiots’. The awake have been abused by the fast asleep for not conforming to fascism and impositions that the awake know are designed to endanger their health, dehumanise them, and tear asunder the very fabric of human society. We have had the curtain- twitchers and morons reporting neighbours and others to the face- nappied police for breaking ‘Covid rules’ with fascist police delighting in posting links and phone numbers where this could be done. The Cult cannot impose its will without a compliant police and military or a compliant population willing to play their part in enslaving themselves and their kids. The words of a pastor in Nazi Germany are so appropriate today:

First they came for the socialists and I did not speak out because I was not a socialist.

Then they came for the trade unionists and I did not speak out because I was not a trade unionist.

Then they came for the Jews and I did not speak out because I was not a Jew.

Then they came for me and there was no one left to speak for me.


Those who don’t learn from history are destined to repeat it and so many are.

‘Covid’ rules: Rewiring the mind With the background laid out to this gigantic national and global web of psychological manipulation we can put ‘Covid’ rules into a clear and sinister perspective. Forget the claims about protecting health. ‘Covid’ rules are about dismantling the human mind, breaking the human spirit, destroying self-respect, and then pu ing Humpty Dumpty together again as a servile, submissive slave. Social isolation through lockdown and distancing have devastating eﬀects on the human psyche as the psychological psychopaths well know and that’s the real reason for them. Humans need contact with each other, discourse, closeness and touch, or they eventually, and literarily, go crazy. Masks, which I will address at some length, fundamentally add to the eﬀects of isolation and the Cult agenda to dehumanise and de-individualise the population. To do this while knowing – in fact seeking – this outcome is the very epitome of evil and psychologists involved in this are the epitome of evil. They must like all the rest of the Cult demons and their assets stand trial for crimes against humanity on a scale that deﬁes the imagination. Psychopaths in uniform use isolation to break enemy troops and agents and make them subservient and submissive to tell what they know. The technique is rightly considered a form of torture and torture is most certainly what has been imposed on the human population.  Clinically-insane American psychologist Harry Harlow became famous for his isolation experiments in the 1950s in which he separated baby monkeys from their mothers and imprisoned them for months on end in a metal container or ‘pit of despair’. They soon began to show mental distress and depression as any idiot could have predicted. Harlow put other monkeys in steel chambers for three, six or twelve months while denying them any contact with animals or humans. He said that the eﬀects of total social isolation for six months were ‘so devastating and debilitating that we had assumed initially that twelve months of isolation would not produce any additional decrement’; but twelve months of isolation ‘almost obliterated the animals socially’. This is what the Cult and its psychopaths are doing to you and your children. Even monkeys in partial isolation in which they were not allowed to form relationships with other monkeys became ‘aggressive and hostile, not only to others, but also towards their own bodies’. We have seen this in the young as a consequence of lockdown. UK government psychopaths launched a public relations campaign telling people not to hug each other even a er they received the ‘Covid-19 vaccine’ which we were told with more lies would allow a return to ‘normal life’. A government source told The Telegraph: ‘It will be along the lines that it is great that you have been vaccinated, but if you are going to visit your family and hug your grandchildren there is a chance you are going to infect people you love.’ The source was apparently speaking from a secure psychiatric facility. Janet Lord, director of Birmingham University’s Institute of Inﬂammation and Ageing, said that parents and grandparents should avoid hugging their children. Well, how can I put it, Ms Lord? Fuck oﬀ. Yep, that’ll do.

Destroying the kids – where are the parents? Observe what has happened to people enslaved and isolated by lockdown as suicide and self-harm has soared worldwide, particularly among the young denied the freedom to associate with their friends. A study of 49,000 people in English-speaking countries concluded that almost half of young adults are at clinical risk of mental health disorders. A national survey in America of 1,000 currently enrolled high school and college students found that 5 percent reported a empting suicide during the pandemic. Data from the US CDC’s National Syndromic Surveillance Program from January 1st to October 17th, 2020, revealed a 31 percent increase in mental health issues among adolescents aged 12 to 17 compared with 2019. The CDC reported that America in general suﬀered the biggest drop in life expectancy since World War Two as it fell by a year in the ﬁrst half of 2020 as a result of ‘deaths of despair’ – overdoses and suicides. Deaths of despair have leapt by more than 20 percent during lockdown and include the highest number of fatal overdoses ever recorded in a single year – 81,000. Internet addiction is another consequence of being isolated at home which lowers interest in physical activities as kids fall into inertia and what’s the point? Children and young people are losing hope and giving up on life, sometimes literally. A 14-year-old boy killed himself in Maryland because he had ‘given up’ when his school district didn’t reopen; an 11-year-old boy shot himself during a zoom class; a teenager in Maine succumbed to the isolation of the ‘pandemic’ when he ended his life a er experiencing a disrupted senior year at school. Children as young as nine have taken their life and all these stories can be repeated around the world. Careers are being destroyed before they start and that includes those in sport in which promising youngsters have not been able to take part. The plan of the psycho-psychologists is working all right. Researchers at Cambridge University found that lockdowns cause signiﬁcant harm to children’s mental health. Their study was published in the Archives of Disease in Childhood, and followed 168 children aged between 7 and 11. The researchers concluded:

During the UK lockdown, children’s depression symptoms have increased substantially, relative to before lockdown. The scale of this effect has direct relevance for the continuation of different elements of lockdown policy, such as complete or partial school closures … … Specifically, we observed a statistically significant increase in ratings of depression, with a medium-to-large effect size. Our findings emphasise the need to incorporate the potential impact of lockdown on child mental health in planning the ongoing response to the global pandemic and the recovery from it.


Not a chance when the Cult’s psycho-psychologists were ge ing exactly what they wanted. The UK’s Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health has urged parents to look for signs of eating disorders in children and young people a er a three to four fold increase. Specialists say the ‘pandemic’ is a major reason behind the rise. You don’t say. The College said isolation from friends during school closures, exam cancellations, loss of extra-curricular activities like sport, and an increased use of social media were all contributory factors along with fears about the virus (psycho-psychologists again), family ﬁnances, and students being forced to quarantine. Doctors said young people were becoming severely ill by the time they were seen with ‘Covid’ regulations reducing face-to-face consultations. Nor is it only the young that have been devastated by the psychopaths. Like all bullies and cowards the Cult is targeting the young, elderly, weak and inﬁrm. A typical story was told by a British lady called Lynn Parker who was not allowed to visit her husband in 2020 for the last ten and half months of his life ‘when he needed me most’ between March 20th and when he died on December 19th. This vacates the criminal and enters the territory of evil. The emotional impact on the immune system alone is immense as are the number of people of all ages worldwide who have died as a result of Cult-demanded, Gates-demanded, lockdowns.

Isolation is torture The experience of imposing solitary conﬁnement on millions of prisoners around the world has shown how a large percentage become ‘actively psychotic and/or acutely suicidal’. Social isolation has been found to trigger ‘a speciﬁc psychiatric syndrome, characterized by hallucinations; panic a acks; overt paranoia; diminished impulse control; hypersensitivity to external stimuli; and diﬃculties with thinking, concentration and memory’. Juan Mendez, a United Nations rapporteur (investigator), said that isolation is a form of torture. Research has shown that even a er isolation prisoners ﬁnd it far more diﬃcult to make social connections and I remember cha ing to a shop assistant a er one lockdown who told me that when her young son met another child again he had no idea how to act or what to do. Hannah Flanagan, Director of Emergency Services at Journey Mental Health Center in Dane County, Wisconsin, said: ‘The speciﬁcity about Covid social distancing and isolation that we’ve come across as contributing factors to the suicides are really new to us this year.’ But they are not new to those that devised them. They are ge ing the eﬀect they want as the population is psychologically dismantled to be rebuilt in a totally diﬀerent way. Children and the young are particularly targeted. They will be the adults when the full-on fascist AI-controlled technocracy is planned to be imposed and they are being prepared to meekly submit. At the same time older people who still have a memory of what life was like before – and how fascist the new normal really is – are being deleted. You are going to see eﬀorts to turn the young against the old to support this geriatric genocide. Hannah Flanagan said the big increase in suicide in her county proved that social isolation is not only harmful, but deadly. Studies have shown that isolation from others is one of the main risk factors in suicide and even more so with women. Warnings that lockdown could create a ‘perfect storm’ for suicide were ignored. A er all this was one of the reasons for lockdown. Suicide, however, is only the most extreme of isolation consequences. There are many others. Dr Dhruv Khullar, assistant professor of healthcare policy at Weill Cornell Medical College, said in a New York Times article in 2016 long before the fake ‘pandemic’:

A wave of new research suggests social separation is bad for us. Individuals with less social connection have disrupted sleep patterns, altered immune systems, more inflammation and higher levels of stress hormones. One recent study found that isolation increases the risk of heart disease by 29 percent and stroke by 32 percent. Another analysis that pooled data from 70 studies and 3.4 million people found that socially isolated individuals had a 30 percent higher risk of dying in the next seven years, and that this effect was largest in middle age. Loneliness can accelerate cognitive decline in older adults, and isolated individuals are twice as likely to die prematurely as those with more robust social interactions. These effects start early: Socially isolated children have significantly poorer health 20 years later, even after controlling for other factors. All told, loneliness is as important a risk factor for early death as obesity and smoking.


 There you have proof from that one article alone four years before 2020 that those who have enforced lockdown, social distancing and isolation knew what the eﬀect would be and that is even more so with professional psychologists that have been driving the policy across the globe. We can go back even further to the years 2000 and 2003 and the start of a major study on the eﬀects of isolation on health by Dr Janine Gronewold and Professor Dirk M. Hermann at the University Hospital in Essen, Germany, who analysed data on 4,316 people with an average age of 59 who were recruited for the long-term research project. They found that socially isolated people are more than 40 percent more likely to have a heart a ack, stroke, or other major cardiovascular event and nearly 50 percent more likely to die from any cause. Given the ﬁnancial Armageddon unleashed by lockdown we should note that the study found a relationship between increased cardiovascular risk and lack of ﬁnancial support. A er excluding other factors social isolation was still connected to a 44 percent increased risk of cardiovascular problems and a 47 percent increased risk of death by any cause. Lack of ﬁnancial support was associated with a 30 percent increase in the risk of cardiovascular health events. Dr Gronewold said it had been known for some time that feeling lonely or lacking contact with close friends and family can have an impact on physical health and the study had shown that having strong social relationships is of high importance for heart health. Gronewold said they didn’t understand yet why people who are socially isolated have such poor health outcomes, but this was obviously a worrying ﬁnding, particularly during these times of prolonged social distancing. Well, it can be explained on many levels. You only have to identify the point in the body where people feel loneliness and missing people they are parted from – it’s in the centre of the chest where they feel the ache of loneliness and the ache of missing people. ‘My heart aches for you’ … ‘My heart aches for some company.’ I will explain this more in the chapter Escaping Wetiko, but when you realise that the body is the mind – they are expressions of each other – the reason why state of the mind dictates state of the body becomes clear.  American psychologist Ranjit Powar was highlighting the eﬀects of lockdown isolation as early as April, 2020. She said humans have evolved to be social creatures and are wired to live in interactive groups. Being isolated from family, friends and colleagues could be unbalancing and traumatic for most people and could result in short or even long-term psychological and physical health problems. An increase in levels of anxiety, aggression, depression, forgetfulness and hallucinations were possible psychological eﬀects of isolation. ‘Mental conditions may be precipitated for those with underlying pre-existing susceptibilities and show up in many others without any pre-condition.’ Powar said personal relationships helped us cope with stress and if we lost this outlet for le ing oﬀ steam the result can be a big emotional void which, for an average person, was diﬃcult to deal with. ‘Just a few days of isolation can cause increased levels of anxiety and depression’ – so what the hell has been the eﬀect on the global population of 18 months of this at the time of writing? Powar said: ‘Add to it the looming threat of a dreadful disease being repeatedly hammered in through the media and you have a recipe for many shades of mental and physical distress.’ For those with a house and a garden it is easy to forget that billions have had to endure lockdown isolation in tiny overcrowded ﬂats and apartments with nowhere to go outside. The psychological and physical consequences of this are unimaginable and with lunatic and abusive partners and parents the consequences have led to tremendous increases in domestic and child abuse and alcoholism as people seek to shut out the horror. Ranjit Powar said:

Staying in a confined space with family is not all a rosy picture for everyone. It can be extremely oppressive and claustrophobic for large low-income families huddled together in small single-room houses. Children here are not lucky enough to have many board/electronic games or books to keep them occupied. Add to it the deep insecurity of running out of funds for food and basic necessities. On the other hand, there are people with dysfunctional family dynamics, such as domineering, abusive or alcoholic partners, siblings or parents which makes staying home a period of trial. Incidence of suicide and physical abuse against women has shown a worldwide increase. Heightened anxiety and depression also affect a person’s immune system, making them more susceptible to illness.


To think that Powar’s article was published on April 11th, 2020.

Six-feet fantasy Social (unsocial) distancing demanded that people stay six feet or two metres apart. UK government advisor Robert Dingwall from the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group said in a radio interview that the two-metre rule was ‘conjured up out of nowhere’ and was not based on science. No, it was not based on medical science, but it didn’t come out of nowhere. The distance related to psychological science. Six feet/two metres was adopted in many countries and we were told by people like the criminal Anthony Fauci and his ilk that it was founded on science. Many schools could not reopen because they did not have the space for six- feet distancing. Then in March, 2021, a er a year of six-feet ‘science’, a study published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases involving more than 500,000 students and almost 100,000 staﬀ over 16 weeks revealed no signiﬁcant diﬀerence in ‘Covid’ cases between six feet and three feet and Fauci changed his tune. Now three feet was okay. There is no diﬀerence between six feet and three inches when there is no ‘virus’ and they got away with six feet for psychological reasons for as long as they could. I hear journalists and others talk about ‘unintended consequences’ of lockdown. They are not unintended at all; they have been coldly-calculated for a speciﬁc outcome of human control and that’s why super-psychopaths like Gates have called for them so vehemently. Super-psychopath psychologists have demanded them and psychopathic or clueless, spineless, politicians have gone along with them by ‘following the science’. But it’s not science at all. ‘Science’ is not what is; it’s only what people can be manipulated to believe it is. The whole ‘Covid’ catastrophe is founded on mind control. Three word or three statement mantras issued by the UK government are a well-known mind control technique and so we’ve had ‘Stay home/protect the NHS/save lives’, ‘Stay alert/control the virus/save lives’ and ‘hands/face/space’. One of the most vocal proponents of extreme ‘Covid’ rules in the UK has been Professor Susan Michie, a member of the British Communist Party, who is not a medical professional. Michie is the director of the Centre for Behaviour Change at University College London. She is a behavioural psychologist and another ﬁlthy rich ‘Marxist’ who praised China’s draconian lockdown. She was known by fellow students at Oxford University as ‘Stalin’s nanny’ for her extreme Marxism. Michie is an inﬂuential member of the UK government’s Scientiﬁc Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) and behavioural manipulation groups which have dominated ‘Covid’ policy. She is a consultant adviser to the World Health Organization on ‘Covid-19’ and behaviour. Why the hell are lockdowns anything to do with her when they are claimed to be about health? Why does a behavioural psychologist from a group charged with changing the behaviour of the public want lockdown, human isolation and mandatory masks? Does that question really need an answer? Michie absolutely has to explain herself before a Nuremberg court when humanity takes back its world again and even more so when you see the consequences of masks that she demands are compulsory. This is a Michie classic:

The benefits of getting primary school children to wear masks is that regardless of what little degree of transmission is occurring in those age groups it could help normalise the practice. Young children wearing masks may be more likely to get their families to accept masks.


 Those words alone should carry a prison sentence when you ponder on the callous disregard for children involved and what a statement it makes about the mind and motivations of Susan Michie. What a lovely lady and what she said there encapsulates the mentality of the psychopaths behind the ‘Covid’ horror. Let us compare what Michie said with a countrywide study in Germany published at researchsquare.com involving 25,000 school children and 17,854 health complaints submi ed by parents. Researchers found that masks are harming children physically, psychologically, and behaviourally with 24 health issues associated with mask wearing. They include: shortness of breath (29.7%); dizziness (26.4%); increased headaches (53%); diﬃculty concentrating (50%); drowsiness or fatigue (37%); and malaise (42%). Nearly a third of children experienced more sleep issues than before and a quarter developed new fears. Researchers found health issues and other impairments in 68 percent of masked children covering their faces for an average of 4.5 hours a day. Hundreds of those taking part experienced accelerated respiration, tightness in the chest, weakness, and short-term impairment of consciousness. A reminder of what Michie said again:

The benefits of getting primary school children to wear masks is that regardless of what little degree of transmission is occurring in those age groups it could help normalise the practice. Young children wearing masks may be more likely to get their families to accept masks.


Psychopaths in government and psychology now have children and young people – plus all the adults – wearing masks for hours on end while clueless teachers impose the will of the psychopaths on the young they should be protecting. What the hell are parents doing?

Cult lab rats We have some schools already imposing on students microchipped buzzers that activate when they get ‘too close’ to their pals in the way they do with lab rats. How apt. To the Cult and its brain-dead servants our children are lab rats being conditioned to be unquestioning, dehumanised slaves for the rest of their lives. Children and young people are being weaned and frightened away from the most natural human instincts including closeness and touch. I have tracked in the books over the years how schools were banning pupils from greeting each other with a hug and the whole Cult-induced Me Too movement has terriﬁed men and boys from a relaxed and natural interaction with female friends and work colleagues to the point where many men try never to be in a room alone with a woman that’s not their partner. Airhead celebrities have as always played their virtue-signalling part in making this happen with their gross exaggeration. For every monster like Harvey Weinstein there are at least tens of thousands of men that don’t treat women like that; but everyone must be branded the same and policy changed for them as well as the monster. I am going to be using the word ‘dehumanise’ many times in this chapter because that is what the Cult is seeking to do and it goes very deep as we shall see. Don’t let them kid you that social distancing is planned to end one day. That’s not the idea. We are seeing more governments and companies funding and producing wearable gadgets to keep people apart and they would not be doing that if this was meant to be short-term. A tech start-up company backed by GCHQ, the British Intelligence and military surveillance headquarters, has created a social distancing wrist sensor that alerts people when they get too close to others. The CIA has also supported tech companies developing similar devices. The wearable sensor was developed by Tended, one of a number of start-up companies supported by GCHQ (see the CIA and DARPA). The device can be worn on the wrist or as a tag on the waistband and will vibrate whenever someone wearing the device breaches social distancing and gets anywhere near natural human contact. The company had a lucky break in that it was developing a distancing sensor when the ‘Covid’ hoax arrived which immediately provided a potentially enormous market. How fortunate. The government in big-time Cult-controlled Ontario in Canada is investing $2.5 million in wearable contact tracing technology that ‘will alert users if they may have been exposed to the Covid-19 in the workplace and will beep or vibrate if they are within six feet of another person’. Facedrive Inc., the technology company behind this, was founded in 2016 with funding from the Ontario Together Fund and obviously they, too, had a prophet on the board of directors. The human surveillance and control technology is called TraceSCAN and would be worn by the human cyborgs in places such as airports, workplaces, construction sites, care homes and … schools.  I emphasise schools with children and young people the prime targets. You know what is planned for society as a whole if you keep your eyes on the schools. They have always been places where the state program the next generation of slaves to be its compliant worker-ants – or Woker-ants these days; but in the mist of the ‘Covid’ madness they have been transformed into mind laboratories on a scale never seen before. Teachers and head teachers are just as programmed as the kids – o en more so. Children are kept apart from human interaction by walk lanes, classroom distancing, staggered meal times, masks, and the rolling-out of buzzer systems. Schools are now physically laid out as a laboratory maze for lab-rats. Lunatics at a school in Anchorage, Alaska, who should be prosecuted for child abuse, took away desks and forced children to kneel (know your place) on a mat for ﬁve hours a day while wearing a mask and using their chairs as a desk. How this was supposed to impact on a ‘virus’ only these clinically insane people can tell you and even then it would be clap-trap. The school banned recess (interaction), art classes (creativity), and physical exercise (ge ing body and mind moving out of inertia). Everyone behind this outrage should be in jail or be er still a mental institution. The behavioural manipulators are all for this dystopian approach to schools. Professor Susan Michie, the mind-doctor and British Communist Party member, said it was wrong to say that schools were safe. They had to be made so by ‘distancing’, masks and ventilation (si ing all day in the cold). I must ask this lady round for dinner on a night I know I am going to be out and not back for weeks. She probably wouldn’t be able to make it, anyway, with all the visits to her own psychologist she must have block-booked.

Masking identity I know how shocking it must be for you that a behaviour manipulator like Michie wants everyone to wear masks which have long been a feature of mind-control programs like the infamous MKUltra in the United States, but, there we are. We live and learn. I spent many years from 1996 to right across the millennium researching mind control in detail on both sides of the Atlantic and elsewhere. I met a large number of mind-control survivors and many had been held captive in body and mind by MKUltra. MK stands for mind-control, but employs the German spelling in deference to the Nazis spirited out of Germany at the end of World War Two by Operation Paperclip in which the US authorities, with help from the Vatican, transported Nazi mind-controllers and engineers to America to continue their work. Many of them were behind the creation of NASA and they included Nazi scientist and SS oﬃcer Wernher von Braun who swapped designing V-2 rockets to bombard London with designing the Saturn V rockets that powered the NASA moon programme’s Apollo cra . I think I may have mentioned that the Cult has no borders. Among Paperclip escapees was Josef Mengele, the Angel of Death in the Nazi concentration camps where he conducted mind and genetic experiments on children o en using twins to provide a control twin to measure the impact of his ‘work’ on the other. If you want to observe the Cult mentality in all its extremes of evil then look into the life of Mengele. I have met many people who suﬀered mercilessly under Mengele in the United States where he operated under the name Dr Greene and became a stalwart of MKUltra programming and torture. Among his locations was the underground facility in the Mojave Desert in California called the China Lake Naval Weapons Station which is almost entirely below the surface. My books The Biggest Secret, Children of the Matrix and The Perception Deception have the detailed background to MKUltra.  The best-known MKUltra survivor is American Cathy O’Brien. I ﬁrst met her and her late partner Mark Phillips at a conference in Colorado in 1996. Mark helped her escape and deprogram from decades of captivity in an oﬀshoot of MKUltra known as Project Monarch in which ‘sex slaves’ were provided for the rich and famous including Father George Bush, Dick Cheney and the Clintons. Read Cathy and Mark’s book Trance-Formation of America and if you are new to this you will be shocked to the core. I read it in 1996 shortly before, with the usual synchronicity of my life, I found myself given a book table at the conference right next to hers. MKUltra never ended despite being very publicly exposed (only a small part of it) in the 1970s and continues in other guises. I am still in touch with Cathy. She contacted me during 2020 a er masks became compulsory in many countries to tell me how they were used as part of MKUltra programming. I had been observing ‘Covid regulations’ and the relationship between authority and public for months. I saw techniques that I knew were employed on individuals in MKUltra being used on the global population. I had read many books and manuals on mind control including one called Silent Weapons for Quiet Wars which came to light in the 1980s and was a guide on how to perceptually program on a mass scale. ‘Silent Weapons’ refers to mind-control. I remembered a line from the manual as governments, medical authorities and law enforcement agencies have so obviously talked to – or rather at – the adult population since the ‘Covid’ hoax began as if they are children. The document said:

If a person is spoken to by a T.V. advertiser as if he were a twelve-year-old, then, due to suggestibility, he will, with a certain probability, respond or react to that suggestion with the uncritical response of a twelve-year-old and will reach in to his economic reservoir and deliver its energy to buy that product on impulse when he passes it in the store.


That’s why authority has spoken to adults like children since all this began.

Why did Michael Jackson wear masks? Every aspect of the ‘Covid’ narrative has mind-control as its central theme. Cathy O’Brien wrote an article for davidicke.com about the connection between masks and mind control. Her daughter Kelly who I ﬁrst met in the 1990s was born while Cathy was still held captive in MKUltra. Kelly was forced to wear a mask as part of her programming from the age of two to dehumanise her, target her sense of individuality and reduce the amount of oxygen her brain and body received. Bingo. This is the real reason for compulsory masks, why they have been enforced en masse, and why they seek to increase the number they demand you wear. First one, then two, with one disgraceful alleged ‘doctor’ recommending four which is nothing less than a death sentence. Where and how o en they must be worn is being expanded for the purpose of mass mind control and damaging respiratory health which they can call ‘Covid-19’. Canada’s government headed by the man-child Justin Trudeau, says it’s ﬁne for children of two and older to wear masks. An insane ‘study’ in Italy involving just 47 children concluded there was no problem for babies as young as four months wearing them. Even a er people were ‘vaccinated’ they were still told to wear masks by the criminal that is Anthony Fauci. Cathy wrote that mandating masks is allowing the authorities literally to control the air we breathe which is what was done in MKUltra. You might recall how the singer Michael Jackson wore masks and there is a reason for that. He was subjected to MKUltra mind control through Project Monarch and his psyche was scrambled by these simpletons. Cathy wrote:

In MKUltra Project Monarch mind control, Michael Jackson had to wear a mask to silence his voice so he could not reach out for help. Remember how he developed that whisper voice when he wasn’t singing? Masks control the mind from the outside in, like the redefining of words is doing. By controlling what we can and cannot say for fear of being labeled racist or beaten, for example, it ultimately controls thought that drives our words and ultimately actions (or lack thereof).

Likewise, a mask muffles our speech so that we are not heard, which controls voice … words … mind. This is Mind Control. Masks are an obvious mind control device, and I am disturbed so many people are complying on a global scale. Masks depersonalize while making a person feel as though they have no voice. It is a barrier to others. People who would never choose to comply but are forced to wear a mask in order to keep their job, and ultimately their family fed, are compromised. They often feel shame and are subdued. People have stopped talking with each other while media controls the narrative.


 The ‘no voice’ theme has o en become literal with train passengers told not to speak to each other in case they pass on the ‘virus’, singing banned for the same reason and bonkers California oﬃcials telling people riding roller coasters that they cannot shout and scream. Cathy said she heard every day from healed MKUltra survivors who cannot wear a mask without ﬂashing back on ways their breathing was controlled – ‘from ball gags and penises to water boarding’. She said that through the years when she saw images of people in China wearing masks ‘due to pollution’ that it was really to control their oxygen levels. ‘I knew it was as much of a population control mechanism of depersonalisation as are burkas’, she said. Masks are another Chinese communist/fascist method of control that has been swept across the West as the West becomes China at lightning speed since we entered 2020.

Mask-19 There are other reasons for mandatory masks and these include destroying respiratory health to call it ‘Covid-19’ and stunting brain development of children and the young. Dr Margarite Griesz- Brisson MD, PhD, is a Consultant Neurologist and Neurophysiologist and the Founder and Medical Director of the London Neurology and Pain Clinic. Her CV goes down the street and round the corner. She is clearly someone who cares about people and won’t parrot the propaganda. Griesz-Brisson has a PhD in pharmacology, with special interest in neurotoxicology, environmental medicine, neuroregeneration and neuroplasticity (the way the brain can change in the light of information received). She went public in October, 2020, with a passionate warning about the eﬀects of mask-wearing laws:

The reinhalation of our exhaled air will without a doubt create oxygen deficiency and a flooding of carbon dioxide. We know that the human brain is very sensitive to oxygen deprivation. There are nerve cells for example in the hippocampus that can’t be longer than 3 minutes without oxygen – they cannot survive. The acute warning symptoms are headaches, drowsiness, dizziness, issues in concentration, slowing down of reaction time – reactions of the cognitive system.


Oh, I know, let’s tell bus, truck and taxi drivers to wear them and people working machinery. How about pilots, doctors and police? Griesz-Brisson makes the important point that while the symptoms she mentions may fade as the body readjusts this does not alter the fact that people continue to operate in oxygen deﬁcit with long list of potential consequences. She said it was well known that neurodegenerative diseases take years or decades to develop. ‘If today you forget your phone number, the breakdown in your brain would have already started 20 or 30 years ago.’ She said degenerative processes in your brain are ge ing ampliﬁed as your oxygen deprivation continues through wearing a mask. Nerve cells in the brain are unable to divide themselves normally in these circumstances and lost nerve cells will no longer be regenerated. ‘What is gone is gone.’ Now consider that people like shop workers and schoolchildren are wearing masks for hours every day. What in the name of sanity is going to be happening to them? ‘I do not wear a mask, I need my brain to think’, Griesz-Brisson said, ‘I want to have a clear head when I deal with my patients and not be in a carbon dioxide-induced anaesthesia’. If you are told to wear a mask anywhere ask the organisation, police, store, whatever, for their risk assessment on the dangers and negative eﬀects on mind and body of enforcing mask-wearing. They won’t have one because it has never been done not even by government. All of them must be subject to class-action lawsuits as the consequences come to light. They don’t do mask risk assessments for an obvious reason. They know what the conclusions would be and independent scientiﬁc studies that have been done tell a horror story of consequences.

‘Masks are criminal’ Dr Griesz-Brisson said that for children and adolescents, masks are an absolute no-no. They had an extremely active and adaptive immune system and their brain was incredibly active with so much to learn. ‘The child’s brain, or the youth’s brain, is thirsting for oxygen.’ The more metabolically active an organ was, the more oxygen it required; and in children and adolescents every organ was metabolically active. Griesz-Brisson said that to deprive a child’s or adolescent’s brain of oxygen, or to restrict it in any way, was not only dangerous to their health, it was absolutely criminal. ‘Oxygen deﬁciency inhibits the development of the brain, and the damage that has taken place as a result CANNOT be reversed.’ Mind manipulators of MKUltra put masks on two-year-olds they wanted to neurologically rewire and you can see why. Griesz-Brisson said a child needs the brain to learn and the brain needs oxygen to function. ‘We don’t need a clinical study for that. This is simple, indisputable physiology.’ Consciously and purposely induced oxygen deﬁciency was an absolutely deliberate health hazard, and an absolute medical contraindication which means that ‘this drug, this therapy, this method or measure should not be used, and is not allowed to be used’. To coerce an entire population to use an absolute medical contraindication by force, she said, there had to be deﬁnite and serious reasons and the reasons must be presented to competent interdisciplinary and independent bodies to be veriﬁed and authorised. She had this warning of the consequences that were coming if mask wearing continued:

When, in ten years, dementia is going to increase exponentially, and the younger generations couldn’t reach their god-given potential, it won’t help to say ‘we didn’t need the masks’. I know how damaging oxygen deprivation is for the brain, cardiologists know how damaging it is for the heart, pulmonologists know how damaging it is for the lungs. Oxygen deprivation damages every single organ. Where are our health departments, our health insurance, our medical associations? It would have been their duty to be vehemently against the lockdown and to stop it and stop it from the very beginning.

Why do the medical boards issue punishments to doctors who give people exemptions? Does the person or the doctor seriously have to prove that oxygen deprivation harms people? What kind of medicine are our doctors and medical associations representing? Who is responsible for this crime? The ones who want to enforce it? The ones who let it happen and play along, or the ones who don’t prevent it?


All of the organisations and people she mentions there either answer directly to the Cult or do whatever hierarchical levels above them tell them to do. The outcome of both is the same. ‘It’s not about masks, it’s not about viruses, it’s certainly not about your health’, Griesz-Brisson said. ‘It is about much, much more. I am not participating. I am not afraid.’ They were taking our air to breathe and there was no unfounded medical exemption from face masks. Oxygen deprivation was dangerous for every single brain. It had to be the free decision of every human being whether they want to wear a mask that was absolutely ineﬀective to protect themselves from a virus. She ended by rightly identifying where the responsibility lies for all this:

The imperative of the hour is personal responsibility. We are responsible for what we think, not the media. We are responsible for what we do, not our superiors. We are responsible for our health, not the World Health Organization. And we are responsible for what happens in our country, not the government.


Halle-bloody-lujah.

But surgeons wear masks, right? Independent studies of mask-wearing have produced a long list of reports detailing mental, emotional and physical dangers. What a deﬁnition of insanity to see police oﬃcers imposing mask-wearing on the public which will cumulatively damage their health while the police themselves wear masks that will cumulatively damage their health. It’s u er madness and both public and police do this because ‘the government says so’ – yes a government of brain-donor idiots like UK Health Secretary Ma Hancock reading the ‘follow the science’ scripts of psychopathic, lunatic psychologists. The response you get from Stockholm syndrome suﬀerers defending the very authorities that are destroying them and their families is that ‘surgeons wear masks’. This is considered the game, set and match that they must work and don’t cause oxygen deﬁcit. Well, actually, scientiﬁc studies have shown that they do and oxygen levels are monitored in operating theatres to compensate. Surgeons wear masks to stop spi le and such like dropping into open wounds – not to stop ‘viral particles’ which are so miniscule they can only be seen through an electron microscope. Holes in the masks are signiﬁcantly bigger than ‘viral particles’ and if you sneeze or cough they will breach the mask. I watched an incredibly disingenuous ‘experiment’ that claimed to prove that masks work in catching ‘virus’ material from the mouth and nose. They did this with a slow motion camera and the mask did block big stuﬀ which stayed inside the mask and against the face to be breathed in or cause infections on the face as we have seen with many children. ‘Viral particles’, however, would never have been picked up by the camera as they came through the mask when they are far too small to be seen. The ‘experiment’ was therefore disingenuous and useless.  Studies have concluded that wearing masks in operating theatres (and thus elsewhere) make no diﬀerence to preventing infection while the opposite is true with toxic shite building up in the mask and this had led to an explosion in tooth decay and gum disease dubbed by dentists ‘mask mouth’. You might have seen the Internet video of a furious American doctor urging people to take oﬀ their masks a er a four-year-old patient had been rushed to hospital the night before and nearly died with a lung infection that doctors sourced to mask wearing. A study in the journal Cancer Discovery found that inhalation of harmful microbes can contribute to advanced stage lung cancer in adults and long-term use of masks can help breed dangerous pathogens. Microbiologists have said frequent mask wearing creates a moist environment in which microbes can grow and proliferate before entering the lungs. The Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health, or CADTH, a Canadian national organisation that provides research and analysis to healthcare decision-makers, said this as long ago as 2013 in a report entitled ‘Use of Surgical Masks in the Operating Room: A Review of the Clinical Eﬀectiveness and Guidelines’. It said:

• No evidence was found to support the use of surgical face masks to reduce the frequency of surgical site infections • No evidence was found on the eﬀectiveness of wearing surgical face masks to protect staﬀ from infectious material in the operating room. • Guidelines recommend the use of surgical face masks by staﬀ in the operating room to protect both operating room staﬀ and patients (despite the lack of evidence).  We were told that the world could go back to ‘normal’ with the arrival of the ‘vaccines’. When they came, fraudulent as they are, the story changed as I knew that it would. We are in the midst of transforming ‘normal’, not going back to it. Mary Ramsay, head of immunisation at Public Health England, echoed the words of US criminal Anthony Fauci who said masks and other regulations must stay no ma er if people are vaccinated. The Fauci idiot continued to wear two masks – diﬀerent colours so both could be clearly seen – a er he claimed to have been vaccinated. Senator Rand Paul told Fauci in one exchange that his double-masks were ‘theatre’ and he was right. It’s all theatre. Mary Ramsay back-tracked on the vaccine- return-to-normal theme when she said the public may need to wear masks and social-distance for years despite the jabs. ‘People have got used to those lower-level restrictions now, and [they] can live with them’, she said telling us what the idea has been all along. ‘The vaccine does not give you a pass, even if you have had it, you must continue to follow all the guidelines’ said a Public Health England statement which reneged on what we had been told before and made having the ‘vaccine’ irrelevant to ‘normality’ even by the oﬃcial story. Spain’s fascist government trumped everyone by passing a law mandating the wearing of masks on the beach and even when swimming in the sea. The move would have devastated what’s le of the Spanish tourist industry, posed potential breathing dangers to swimmers and had Northern European sunbathers walking around with their forehead brown and the rest of their face white as a sheet. The ruling was so crazy that it had to be retracted a er pressure from public and tourist industry, but it conﬁrmed where the Cult wants to go with masks and how clinically insane authority has become. The determination to make masks permanent and hide the serious dangers to body and mind can be seen in the censorship of scientist Professor Denis Rancourt by Bill Gates- funded academic publishing website ResearchGate over his papers exposing the dangers and uselessness of masks. Rancourt said:

ResearchGate today has permanently locked my account, which I have had since 2015. Their reasons graphically show the nature of their attack against democracy, and their corruption of science … By their obscene non-logic, a scientific review of science articles reporting on harms caused by face masks has a ‘potential to cause harm’. No criticism of the psychological device (face masks) is tolerated, if the said criticism shows potential to influence public policy.


This is what happens in a fascist world.

Where are the ‘greens’ (again)? Other dangers of wearing masks especially regularly relate to the inhalation of minute plastic ﬁbres into the lungs and the deluge of discarded masks in the environment and oceans. Estimates predicted that more than 1.5 billion disposable masks will end up in the world’s oceans every year polluting the water with tons of plastic and endangering marine wildlife. Studies project that humans are using 129 billion face masks each month worldwide – about three million a minute. Most are disposable and made from plastic, non- biodegradable microﬁbers that break down into smaller plastic particles that become widespread in ecosystems. They are li ering cities, clogging sewage channels and turning up in bodies of water. I have wri en in other books about the immense amounts of microplastics from endless sources now being absorbed into the body. Rolf Halden, director of the Arizona State University (ASU) Biodesign Center for Environmental Health Engineering, was the senior researcher in a 2020 study that analysed 47 human tissue samples and found microplastics in all of them. ‘We have detected these chemicals of plastics in every single organ that we have investigated’, he said. I wrote in The Answer about the world being deluged with microplastics. A study by the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) found that people are consuming on average every week some 2,000 tiny pieces of plastic mostly through water and also through marine life and the air. Every year humans are ingesting enough microplastics to ﬁll a heaped dinner plate and in a life-time of 79 years it is enough to ﬁll two large waste bins. Marco Lambertini, WWF International director general said: ‘Not only are plastics polluting our oceans and waterways and killing marine life – it’s in all of us and we can’t escape consuming plastics,’ American geologists found tiny plastic ﬁbres, beads and shards in rainwater samples collected from the remote slopes of the Rocky Mountain National Park near Denver, Colorado. Their report was headed: ‘It is raining plastic.’ Rachel Adams, senior lecturer in Biomedical Science at Cardiﬀ Metropolitan University, said that among health consequences are internal inﬂammation and immune responses to a ‘foreign body’. She further pointed out that microplastics become carriers of toxins including mercury, pesticides and dioxins (a known cause of cancer and reproductive and developmental problems). These toxins accumulate in the fa y tissues once they enter the body through microplastics. Now this is being compounded massively by people pu ing plastic on their face and throwing it away.  Workers exposed to polypropylene plastic ﬁbres known as ‘ﬂock’ have developed ‘ﬂock worker’s lung’ from inhaling small pieces of the ﬂock ﬁbres which can damage lung tissue, reduce breathing capacity and exacerbate other respiratory problems. Now … commonly used surgical masks have three layers of melt-blown textiles made of … polypropylene. We have billions of people pu ing these microplastics against their mouth, nose and face for hours at a time day a er day in the form of masks. How does anyone think that will work out? I mean – what could possibly go wrong? We posted a number of scientiﬁc studies on this at davidicke.com, but when I went back to them as I was writing this book the links to the science research website where they were hosted were dead. Anything that challenges the oﬃcial narrative in any way is either censored or viliﬁed. The oﬃcial narrative is so unsupportable by the evidence that only deleting the truth can protect it. A study by Chinese scientists still survived – with the usual twist which it why it was still active, I guess. Yes, they found that virtually all the masks they tested increased the daily intake of microplastic ﬁbres, but people should still wear them because the danger from the ‘virus’ was worse said the crazy ‘team’ from the Institute of Hydrobiology in Wuhan. Scientists ﬁrst discovered microplastics in lung tissue of some patients who died of lung cancer in the 1990s. Subsequent studies have conﬁrmed the potential health damage with the plastic degrading slowly and remaining in the lungs to accumulate in volume. Wuhan researchers used a machine simulating human breathing to establish that masks shed up to nearly 4,000 microplastic ﬁbres in a month with reused masks producing more. Scientists said some masks are laced with toxic chemicals and a variety of compounds seriously restricted for both health and environmental reasons. They include cobalt (used in blue dye) and formaldehyde known to cause watery eyes, burning sensations in the eyes, nose, and throat, plus coughing, wheezing and nausea. No – that must be ‘Covid-19’.

Mask ‘worms’ There is another and potentially even more sinister content of masks. Mostly new masks of diﬀerent makes ﬁlmed under a microscope around the world have been found to contain strange black ﬁbres or ‘worms’ that appear to move or ‘crawl’ by themselves and react to heat and water. The nearest I have seen to them are the self- replicating ﬁbres that are pulled out through the skin of those suﬀering from Morgellons disease which has been connected to the phenomena of ‘chemtrails’ which I will bring into the story later on. Morgellons ﬁbres continue to grow outside the body and have a form of artiﬁcial intelligence. Black ‘worm’ ﬁbres in masks have that kind of feel to them and there is a nanotechnology technique called ‘worm micelles’ which carry and release drugs or anything else you want to deliver to the body. For sure the suppression of humanity by mind altering drugs is the Cult agenda big time and the more excuses they can ﬁnd to gain access to the body the more opportunities there are to make that happen whether through ‘vaccines’ or masks pushed against the mouth and nose for hours on end. So let us summarise the pros and cons of masks: Against masks: Breathing in your own carbon dioxide; depriving the body and brain of suﬃcient oxygen; build-up of toxins in the mask that can be breathed into the lungs and cause rashes on the face and ‘mask-mouth’; breathing microplastic ﬁbres and toxic chemicals into the lungs; dehumanisation and deleting individualisation by literally making people faceless; destroying human emotional interaction through facial expression and deleting parental connection with their babies which look for guidance to their facial expression.


For masks: They don’t protect you from a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist and even if it did ‘viral’ particles are so minute they are smaller than the holes in the mask.

 Governments, police, supermarkets, businesses, transport companies, and all the rest who seek to impose masks have done no risk assessment on their consequences for health and psychology and are now open to group lawsuits when the impact becomes clear with a cumulative epidemic of respiratory and other disease. Authorities will try to exploit these eﬀects and hide the real cause by dubbing them ‘Covid-19’. Can you imagine se ing out to force the population to wear health-destroying masks without doing any assessment of the risks? It is criminal and it is evil, but then how many people targeted in this way, who see their children told to wear them all day at school, have asked for a risk assessment? Billions can’t be imposed upon by the few unless the billions allow it. Oh, yes, with just a tinge of irony, 85 percent of all masks made worldwide come from China.

Wash your hands in toxic shite ‘Covid’ rules include the use of toxic sanitisers and again the health consequences of constantly applying toxins to be absorbed through the skin is obvious to any level of Renegade Mind. America’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said that sanitisers are drugs and issued a warning about 75 dangerous brands which contain methanol used in antifreeze and can cause death, kidney damage and blindness. The FDA circulated the following warning even for those brands that it claims to be safe:

Store hand sanitizer out of the reach of pets and children, and children should use it only with adult supervision. Do not drink hand sanitizer. This is particularly important for young children, especially toddlers, who may be attracted by the pleasant smell or brightly colored bottles of hand sanitizer.

Drinking even a small amount of hand sanitizer can cause alcohol poisoning in children. (However, there is no need to be concerned if your children eat with or lick their hands after using hand sanitizer.) During this coronavirus pandemic, poison control centers have had an increase in calls about accidental ingestion of hand sanitizer, so it is important that adults monitor young children’s use.

Do not allow pets to swallow hand sanitizer. If you think your pet has eaten something potentially dangerous, call your veterinarian or a pet poison control center right away. Hand sanitizer is flammable and should be stored away from heat and flames. When using hand sanitizer, rub your hands until they feel completely dry before performing activities that may involve heat, sparks, static electricity, or open flames.


There you go, perfectly safe, then, and that’s without even a mention of the toxins absorbed through the skin. Come on kids – sanitise your hands everywhere you go. It will save you from the ‘virus’. Put all these elements together of the ‘Covid’ normal and see how much health and psychology is being cumulatively damaged, even devastated, to ‘protect your health’. Makes sense, right? They are only imposing these things because they care, right? Right?

Submitting to insanity Psychological reframing of the population goes very deep and is done in many less obvious ways. I hear people say how contradictory and crazy ‘Covid’ rules are and how they are ever changing. This is explained away by dismissing those involved as idiots. It is a big mistake. The Cult is delighted if its cold calculation is perceived as incompetence and idiocy when it is anything but. Oh, yes, there are idiots within the system – lots of them – but they are administering the Cult agenda, mostly unknowingly. They are not deciding and dictating it. The bulwark against tyranny is self- respect, always has been, always will be. It is self-respect that has broken every tyranny in history. By its very nature self-respect will not bow to oppression and its perpetrators. There is so li le self- respect that it’s always the few that overturn dictators. Many may eventually follow, but the few with the iron spines (self-respect) kick it oﬀ and generate the momentum. The Cult targets self-respect in the knowledge that once this has gone only submission remains. Crazy, contradictory, ever-changing ‘Covid’ rules are systematically applied by psychologists to delete self-respect. They want you to see that the rules make no sense. It is one thing to decide to do something when you have made the choice based on evidence and logic. You still retain your self-respect. It is quite another when you can see what you are being told to do is insane, ridiculous and makes no sense, and yet you still do it. Your self-respect is extinguished and this has been happening as ever more obviously stupid and nonsensical things have been demanded and the great majority have complied even when they can see they are stupid and nonsensical.  People walk around in face-nappies knowing they are damaging their health and make no diﬀerence to a ‘virus’. They do it in fear of not doing it. I know it’s da , but I’ll do it anyway. When that happens something dies inside of you and submissive reframing has begun. Next there’s a need to hide from yourself that you have conceded your self-respect and you convince yourself that you have not really submi ed to fear and intimidation. You begin to believe that you are complying with craziness because it’s the right thing to do. When ﬁrst you concede your self-respect of 2+2 = 4 to 2+2 = 5 you know you are compromising your self-respect. Gradually to avoid facing that fact you begin to believe that 2+2=5. You have been reframed and I have been watching this process happening in the human psyche on an industrial scale. The Cult is working to break your spirit and one of its major tools in that war is humiliation. I read how former American soldier Bradley Manning (later Chelsea Manning a er a sex-change) was treated a er being jailed for supplying WikiLeaks with documents exposing the enormity of government and elite mendacity. Manning was isolated in solitary conﬁnement for eight months, put under 24-hour surveillance, forced to hand over clothing before going to bed, and stand naked for every roll call. This is systematic humiliation. The introduction of anal swab ‘Covid’ tests in China has been done for the same reason to delete self-respect and induce compliant submission. Anal swabs are mandatory for incoming passengers in parts of China and American diplomats have said they were forced to undergo the indignity which would have been calculated humiliation by the Cult-owned Chinese government that has America in its sights.

Government-people: An abusive relationship Spirit-breaking psychological techniques include giving people hope and apparent respite from tyranny only to take it away again. This happened in the UK during Christmas, 2020, when the psycho- psychologists and their political lackeys announced an easing of restrictions over the holiday only to reimpose them almost immediately on the basis of yet another lie. There is a big psychological diﬀerence between ge ing used to oppression and being given hope of relief only to have that dashed. Psychologists know this and we have seen the technique used repeatedly. Then there is traumatising people before you introduce more extreme regulations that require compliance. A perfect case was the announcement by the dark and sinister Whi y and Vallance in the UK that ‘new data’ predicted that 4,000 could die every day over the winter of 2020/2021 if we did not lockdown again. I think they call it lying and a er traumatising people with that claim out came Jackboot Johnson the next day with new curbs on human freedom. Psychologists know that a frightened and traumatised mind becomes suggestable to submission and behaviour reframing. Underpinning all this has been to make people fearful and suspicious of each other and see themselves as a potential danger to others. In league with deleted self-respect you have the perfect psychological recipe for self-loathing. The relationship between authority and public is now demonstrably the same as that of subservience to an abusive partner. These are signs of an abusive relationship explained by psychologist Leslie Becker-Phelps:

Psychological and emotional abuse: Undermining a partner’s self-worth with verbal a acks, name-calling, and beli ling. Humiliating the partner in public, unjustly accusing them of having an aﬀair, or interrogating them about their every behavior. Keeping partner confused or oﬀ balance by saying they were just kidding or blaming the partner for ‘making’ them act this way … Feigning in public that they care while turning against them in private. This leads to victims frequently feeling confused, incompetent, unworthy, hopeless, and chronically self-doubting. [Apply these techniques to how governments have treated the population since New Year, 2020, and the parallels are obvious.]  Physical abuse: The abuser might physically harm their partner in

a range of ways, such as grabbing, hi ing, punching, or shoving them. They might throw objects at them or harm them with a weapon. [Observe the physical harm imposed by masks, lockdown, and so on.]  Threats and intimidation: One way abusers keep their partners in

line is by instilling fear. They might be verbally threatening, or give threatening looks or gestures. Abusers o en make it known that they are tracking their partner’s every move. They might destroy their partner’s possessions, threaten to harm them, or threaten to harm their family members. Not surprisingly, victims of this abuse o en feel anxiety, fear, and panic. [No words necessary.]  Isolation: Abusers o en limit their partner’s activities, forbidding

them to talk or interact with friends or family. They might limit access to a car or even turn oﬀ their phone. All of this might be done by physically holding them against their will, but is o en accomplished through psychological abuse and intimidation. The more isolated a person feels, the fewer resources they have to help gain perspective on their situation and to escape from it. [No words necessary.] Economic abuse:Abusers o en make their partners beholden to them for money by controlling access to funds of any kind. They might prevent their partner from ge ing a job or withhold access to money they earn from a job. This creates ﬁnancial dependency that makes leaving the relationship very diﬃcult. [See destruction of livelihoods and the proposed meagre ‘guaranteed income’ so long as you do whatever you are told.]  Using children: An abuser might disparage their partner’s

parenting skills, tell their children lies about their partner, threaten to take custody of their children, or threaten to harm their children. These tactics instil fear and o en elicit compliance. [See reframed social service maﬁa and how children are being mercilessly abused by the state over ‘Covid’ while their parents look on too frightened to do anything.]  A further recurring trait in an abusive relationship is the abused blaming themselves for their abuse and making excuses for the abuser. We have the public blaming each other for lockdown abuse by government and many making excuses for the government while a acking those who challenge the government. How o en we have heard authorities say that rules are being imposed or reimposed only because people have refused to ‘behave’ and follow the rules. We don’t want to do it – it’s you.  Renegade Minds are an antidote to all of these things. They will never concede their self-respect no ma er what the circumstances. Even when apparent humiliation is heaped upon them they laugh in its face and reﬂect back the humiliation on the abuser where it belongs. Renegade Minds will never wear masks they know are only imposed to humiliate, suppress and damage both physically and psychologically. Consequences will take care of themselves and they will never break their spirit or cause them to concede to tyranny. UK newspaper columnist Peter Hitchens was one of the few in the mainstream media to speak out against lockdowns and forced vaccinations. He then announced he had taken the jab. He wanted to see family members abroad and he believed vaccine passports were inevitable even though they had not yet been introduced. Hitchens has a questioning and critical mind, but not a Renegade one. If he had no amount of pressure would have made him concede. Hitchens excused his action by saying that the ba le has been lost. Renegade Minds never accept defeat when freedom is at stake and even if they are the last one standing the self-respect of not submi ing to tyranny is more important than any outcome or any consequence.  That’s why Renegade Minds are the only minds that ever changed anything worth changing. CHAPTER EIGHT

‘Reframing’ insanity

Insanity is relative. It depends on who has who locked in what cage  Ray Bradbury



‘ R eframing’ a mind means simply to change its perception and behaviour. This can be done subconsciously to such an extent that subjects have no idea they have been ‘reframed’ while to any observer changes in behaviour and a itudes are obvious.  Human society is being reframed on a ginormous scale since the start of 2020 and here we have the reason why psychologists rather than doctors have been calling the shots. Ask most people who have succumbed to ‘Covid’ reframing if they have changed and most will say ‘no’; but they have and fundamentally. The Cult’s long-game has been preparing for these times since way back and crucial to that has been to prepare both population and oﬃcialdom mentally and emotionally. To use the mind-control parlance they had to reframe the population with a mentality that would submit to fascism and reframe those in government and law enforcement to impose fascism or at least go along with it. The result has been the fact- deleted mindlessness of ‘Wokeness’ and oﬃcialdom that has either enthusiastically or unquestioningly imposed global tyranny demanded by reframed politicians on behalf of psychopathic and deeply evil cultists. ‘Cognitive reframing’ identiﬁes and challenges the way someone sees the world in the form of situations, experiences and emotions and then restructures those perceptions to view the same set of circumstances in a diﬀerent way. This can have beneﬁts if the a itudes are personally destructive while on the other side it has the potential for individual and collective mind control which the subject has no idea has even happened.  Cognitive therapy was developed in the 1960s by Aaron T. Beck who was born in Rhode Island in 1921 as the son of Jewish immigrants from the Ukraine. He became interested in the techniques as a treatment for depression. Beck’s daughter Judith S. Beck is prominent in the same ﬁeld and they founded the Beck Institute for Cognitive Behavior Therapy in Philadelphia in 1994. Cognitive reframing, however, began to be used worldwide by those with a very dark agenda. The Cult reframes politicians to change their a itudes and actions until they are completely at odds with what they once appeared to stand for. The same has been happening to government administrators at all levels, law enforcement, military and the human population. Cultists love mind control for two main reasons: It allows them to control what people think, do and say to secure agenda advancement and, by deﬁnition, it calms their legendary insecurity and fear of the unexpected. I have studied mind control since the time I travelled America in 1996. I may have been talking to next to no one in terms of an audience in those years, but my goodness did I gather a phenomenal amount of information and knowledge about so many things including the techniques of mind control. I have described this in detail in other books going back to The Biggest Secret in 1998. I met a very large number of people recovering from MKUltra and its oﬀshoots and successors and I began to see how these same techniques were being used on the population in general. This was never more obvious than since the ‘Covid’ hoax began.

Reframing the enforcers I have observed over the last two decades and more the very clear transformation in the dynamic between the police, oﬃcialdom and the public. I tracked this in the books as the relationship mutated from one of serving the public to seeing them as almost the enemy and certainly a lower caste. There has always been a class divide based on income and always been some psychopathic, corrupt, and big-I-am police oﬃcers. This was diﬀerent. Wholesale change was unfolding in the collective dynamic; it was less about money and far more about position and perceived power. An us-and-them was emerging. Noses were li ed skyward by government administration and law enforcement and their a itude to the public they were supposed to be serving changed to one of increasing contempt, superiority and control. The transformation was so clear and widespread that it had to be planned. Collective a itudes and dynamics do not change naturally and organically that quickly on that scale. I then came across an organisation in Britain called Common Purpose created in the late 1980s by Julia Middleton who would work in the oﬃce of Deputy Prime Minister John Presco during the long and disastrous premiership of war criminal Tony Blair. When Blair speaks the Cult is speaking and the man should have been in jail a long time ago. Common Purpose proclaims itself to be one of the biggest ‘leadership development’ organisations in the world while functioning as a charity with all the ﬁnancial beneﬁts which come from that. It hosts ‘leadership development’ courses and programmes all over the world and claims to have ‘brought together’ what it calls ‘leaders’ from more than 100 countries on six continents. The modus operandi of Common Purpose can be compared with the work of the UK government’s reframing network that includes the Behavioural Insights Team ‘nudge unit’ and ‘Covid’ reframing specialists at SPI-B. WikiLeaks described Common Purpose long ago as ‘a hidden virus in our government and schools’ which is unknown to the general public: ‘It recruits and trains “leaders” to be loyal to the directives of Common Purpose and the EU, instead of to their own departments, which they then undermine or subvert, the NHS [National Health Service] being an example.’ This is a vital point to understand the ‘Covid’ hoax. The NHS, and its equivalent around the world, has been u erly reframed in terms of administrators and much of the medical personnel with the transformation underpinned by recruitment policies. The outcome has been the criminal and psychopathic behaviour of the NHS over ‘Covid’ and we have seen the same in every other major country. WikiLeaks said Common Purpose trainees are ‘learning to rule without regard to democracy’ and to usher in a police state (current events explained). Common Purpose operated like a ‘glue’ and had members in the NHS, BBC, police, legal profession, church, many of Britain’s 7,000 quangos, local councils, the Civil Service, government ministries and Parliament, and controlled many RDA’s (Regional Development Agencies). Here we have one answer for how and why British institutions and their like in other countries have changed so negatively in relation to the public. This further explains how and why the beyond-disgraceful reframed BBC has become a propaganda arm of ‘Covid’ fascism. They are all part of a network pursuing the same goal. By 2019 Common Purpose was quoting a ﬁgure of 85,000 ‘leaders’ that had a ended its programmes. These ‘students’ of all ages are known as Common Purpose ‘graduates’ and they consist of government, state and local government oﬃcials and administrators, police chiefs and oﬃcers, and a whole range of others operating within the national, local and global establishment. Cressida Dick, Commissioner of the London Metropolitan Police, is the Common Purpose graduate who was the ‘Gold Commander’ that oversaw what can only be described as the murder of Brazilian electrician Jean Charles de Menezes in 2005. He was held down by psychopathic police and shot seven times in the head by a psychopathic lunatic a er being mistaken for a terrorist when he was just a bloke going about his day. Dick authorised oﬃcers to pursue and keep surveillance on de Menezes and ordered that he be stopped from entering the underground train system. Police psychopaths took her at her word clearly. She was ‘disciplined’ for this outrage by being promoted – eventually to the top of the ‘Met’ police where she has been a disaster. Many Chief Constables controlling the police in diﬀerent parts of the UK are and have been Common Purpose graduates. I have heard the ‘graduate’ network described as a sort of Maﬁa or secret society operating within the fabric of government at all levels pursuing a collective policy ingrained at Common Purpose training events. Founder Julia Middleton herself has said:

Locally and internationally, Common Purpose graduates will be ‘lighting small fires’ to create change in their organisations and communities … The Common Purpose effect is best illustrated by the many stories of small changes brought about by leaders, who themselves have changed.


A Common Purpose mission statement declared:

Common Purpose aims to improve the way society works by expanding the vision, decision- making ability and influence of all kinds of leaders. The organisation runs a variety of educational programmes for leaders of all ages, backgrounds and sectors, in order to provide them with the inspirational, information and opportunities they need to change the world.


Yes, but into what? Since 2020 the answer has become clear.

NLP and the Delphi technique Common Purpose would seem to be a perfect name or would common programming be be er? One of the foundation methods of reaching ‘consensus’ (group think) is by se ing the agenda theme and then encouraging, cajoling or pressuring everyone to agree a ‘consensus’ in line with the core theme promoted by Common Purpose. The methodology involves the ‘Delphi technique’, or an adaption of it, in which opinions are expressed that are summarised by a ‘facilitator or change agent’ at each stage. Participants are ‘encouraged’ to modify their views in the light of what others have said. Stage by stage the former individual opinions are merged into group consensus which just happens to be what Common Purpose wants them to believe. A key part of this is to marginalise anyone refusing to concede to group think and turn the group against them to apply pressure to conform. We are seeing this very technique used on the general population to make ‘Covid’ group-thinkers hostile to those who have seen through the bullshit. People can be reframed by using perception manipulation methods such as Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) in which you change perception with the use of carefully constructed language. An NLP website described the technique this way:

… A method of influencing brain behaviour (the ‘neuro’ part of the phrase) through the use of language (the ‘linguistic’ part) and other types of communication to enable a person to ‘recode’ the way the brain responds to stimuli (that’s the ‘programming’) and manifest new and better behaviours. Neuro-Linguistic Programming often incorporates hypnosis and self- hypnosis to help achieve the change (or ‘programming’) that is wanted.


British alternative media operation UKColumn has done very detailed research into Common Purpose over a long period. I quoted co-founder and former naval oﬃcer Brian Gerrish in my book Remember Who You Are, published in 2011, as saying the following years before current times:

It is interesting that many of the mothers who have had children taken by the State speak of the Social Services people being icily cool, emotionless and, as two ladies said in slightly different words, ‘… like little robots’. We know that NLP is cumulative, so people can be given small imperceptible doses of NLP in a course here, another in a few months, next year etc. In this way, major changes are accrued in their personality, but the day by day change is almost unnoticeable.


In these and other ways ‘graduates’ have had their perceptions uniformly reframed and they return to their roles in the institutions of government, law enforcement, legal profession, military, ‘education’, the UK National Health Service and the whole swathe of the establishment structure to pursue a common agenda preparing for the ‘post-industrial’, ‘post-democratic’ society. I say ‘preparing’ but we are now there. ‘Post-industrial’ is code for the Great Reset and ‘post-democratic’ is ‘Covid’ fascism. UKColumn has spoken to partners of those who have a ended Common Purpose ‘training’. They have described how personalities and a itudes of ‘graduates’ changed very noticeably for the worse by the time they had completed the course. They had been ‘reframed’ and told they are the ‘leaders’ – the special ones – who know be er than the population. There has also been the very demonstrable recruitment of psychopaths and narcissists into government administration at all levels and law enforcement. If you want psychopathy hire psychopaths and you get a simple cause and eﬀect. If you want administrators, police oﬃcers and ‘leaders’ to perceive the public as lesser beings who don’t ma er then employ narcissists. These personalities are identiﬁed using ‘psychometrics’ that identiﬁes knowledge, abilities, a itudes and personality traits, mostly through carefully-designed questionnaires and tests. As this policy has passed through the decades we have had power-crazy, power- trippers appointed into law enforcement, security and government administration in preparation for current times and the dynamic between public and law enforcement/oﬃcialdom has been transformed. UKColumn’s Brian Gerrish said of the narcissistic personality:

Their love of themselves and power automatically means that they will crush others who get in their way. I received a major piece of the puzzle when a friend pointed out that when they made public officials re-apply for their own jobs several years ago they were also required to do psychometric tests. This was undoubtedly the start of the screening process to get ‘their’ sort of people in post.


How obvious that has been since 2020 although it was clear what was happening long before if people paid a ention to the changing public-establishment dynamic.

Change agents At the centre of events in ‘Covid’ Britain is the National Health Service (NHS) which has behaved disgracefully in slavishly following the Cult agenda. The NHS management structure is awash with Common Purpose graduates or ‘change agents’ working to a common cause. Helen Bevan, a Chief of Service Transformation at the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement, co-authored a document called ‘Towards a million change agents, a review of the social movements literature: implications for large scale change in the NHS‘. The document compared a project management approach to that of change and social movements where ‘people change themselves and each other – peer to peer’. Two deﬁnitions given for a ‘social movement’ were:


A group of people who consciously attempt to build a radically new social order; involves people of a broad range of social backgrounds; and deploys politically confrontational and socially disruptive tactics – Cyrus Zirakzadeh 1997


Collective challenges, based on common purposes and social solidarities, in sustained interaction with elites, opponents, and authorities – Sidney Tarrow 1994

 Helen Bevan wrote another NHS document in which she deﬁned ‘framing’ as ‘the process by which leaders construct, articulate and put across their message in a powerful and compelling way in order to win people to their cause and call them to action’. I think I could come up with another deﬁnition that would be rather more accurate. The National Health Service and institutions of Britain and the wider world have been taken over by reframed ‘change agents’ and that includes everything from the United Nations to national governments, local councils and social services which have been kidnapping children from loving parents on an extraordinary and gathering scale on the road to the end of parenthood altogether. Children from loving homes are stolen and kidnapped by the state and put into the ‘care’ (inversion) of the local authority through council homes, foster parents and forced adoption. At the same time children are allowed to be abused without response while many are under council ‘care’. UKColumn highlighted the Common Purpose connection between South Yorkshire Police and Rotherham council oﬃcers in the case of the scandal in that area of the sexual exploitation of children to which the authorities turned not one blind eye, but both: We were alarmed to discover that the Chief Executive, the Strategic Director of Children and Young People’s Services, the Manager for the Local Strategic Partnership, the Community Cohesion Manager, the Cabinet Member for Cohesion, the Chief Constable and his predecessor had all attended Leadership training courses provided by the pseudo-charity Common Purpose.


Once ‘change agents’ have secured positions of hire and ﬁre within any organisation things start to move very quickly. Personnel are then hired and ﬁred on the basis of whether they will work towards the agenda the change agent represents. If they do they are rapidly promoted even though they may be incompetent. Those more qualiﬁed and skilled who are pre-Common Purpose ‘old school’ see their careers stall and even disappear. This has been happening for decades in every institution of state, police, ‘health’ and social services and all of them have been transformed as a result in their a itudes to their jobs and the public. Medical professions, including nursing, which were once vocations for the caring now employ many cold, callous and couldn’t give a shit personality types. The UKColumn investigation concluded:

By blurring the boundaries between people, professions, public and private sectors, responsibility and accountability, Common Purpose encourages ‘graduates’ to believe that as new selected leaders, they can work together, outside of the established political and social structures, to achieve a paradigm shift or CHANGE – so called ‘Leading Beyond Authority’. In doing so, the allegiance of the individual becomes ‘reframed’ on CP colleagues and their NETWORK.


Reframing the Face-Nappies Nowhere has this process been more obvious than in the police where recruitment of psychopaths and development of unquestioning mind-controlled group-thinkers have transformed law enforcement into a politically-correct ‘Woke’ joke and a travesty of what should be public service. Today they wear their face-nappies like good li le gofers and enforce ‘Covid’ rules which are fascism under another name. Alongside the speciﬁcally-recruited psychopaths we have so ware minds incapable of free thought. Brian Gerrish again: An example is the policeman who would not get on a bike for a press photo because he had not done the cycling proficiency course. Normal people say this is political correctness gone mad. Nothing could be further from the truth. The policeman has been reframed, and in his reality it is perfect common sense not to get on the bike ‘because he hasn’t done the cycling course’.

Another example of this is where the police would not rescue a boy from a pond until they had taken advice from above on the ‘risk assessment’. A normal person would have arrived, perhaps thought of the risk for a moment, and dived in. To the police now ‘reframed’, they followed ‘normal’ procedure.


 There are shocking cases of reframed ambulance crews doing the same. Sheer unthinking stupidity of London Face-Nappies headed by Common Purpose graduate Cressida Dick can be seen in their behaviour at a vigil in March, 2021, for a murdered woman, Sarah Everard. A police oﬃcer had been charged with the crime. Anyone with a brain would have le the vigil alone in the circumstances. Instead they ‘manhandled’ women to stop them breaking ‘Covid rules’ to betray classic reframing. Minds in the thrall of perception control have no capacity for seeing a situation on its merits and acting accordingly. ‘Rules is rules’ is their only mind-set. My father used to say that rules and regulations are for the guidance of the intelligent and the blind obedience of the idiot. Most of the intelligent, decent, coppers have gone leaving only the other kind and a few old school for whom the job must be a daily nightmare. The combination of psychopaths and rule-book so ware minds has been clearly on public display in the ‘Covid’ era with automaton robots in uniform imposing fascistic ‘Covid’ regulations on the population without any personal initiative or judging situations on their merits. There are thousands of examples around the world, but I’ll make my point with the infamous Derbyshire police in the English East Midlands – the ones who think pouring dye into beauty spots and using drones to track people walking in the countryside away from anyone is called ‘policing’. To them there are rules decreed by the government which they have to enforce and in their bewildered state a group gathering in a closed space and someone walking alone in the countryside are the same thing. It is beyond idiocy and enters the realm of clinical insanity.  Police oﬃcers in Derbyshire said they were ‘horriﬁed’ – horrified – to ﬁnd 15 to 20 ‘irresponsible’ kids playing a football match at a closed leisure centre ‘in breach of coronavirus restrictions’. When they saw the police the kids ran away leaving their belongings behind and the reframed men and women of Derbyshire police were seeking to establish their identities with a view to ﬁning their parents. The most natural thing for youngsters to do – kicking a ball about – is turned into a criminal activity and enforced by the moronic so ware programs of Derbyshire police. You ﬁnd the same mentality in every country. These barely conscious ‘horriﬁed’ oﬃcers said they had to take action because ‘we need to ensure these rules are being followed’ and ‘it is of the utmost importance that you ensure your children are following the rules and regulations for Covid-19’. Had any of them done ten seconds of research to see if this parroting of their masters’ script could be supported by any evidence? Nope. Reframed people don’t think – others think for them and that’s the whole idea of reframing. I have seen police oﬃcers one a er the other repeating without question word for word what oﬃcialdom tells them just as I have seen great swathes of the public doing the same. Ask either for ‘their’ opinion and out spews what they have been told to think by the oﬃcial narrative. Police and public may seem to be in diﬀerent groups, but their mentality is the same. Most people do whatever they are told in fear not doing so or because they believe what oﬃcialdom tells them; almost the entirety of the police do what they are told for the same reason. Ultimately it’s the tiny inner core of the global Cult that’s telling both what to do.  So Derbyshire police were ‘horriﬁed’. Oh, really? Why did they think those kids were playing football? It was to relieve the psychological consequences of lockdown and being denied human contact with their friends and interaction, touch and discourse vital to human psychological health. Being denied this month a er month has dismantled the psyche of many children and young people as depression and suicide have exploded. Were Derbyshire police horrified by that? Are you kidding? Reframed people don’t have those mental and emotional processes that can see how the impact on the psychological health of youngsters is far more dangerous than any ‘virus’ even if you take the mendacious oﬃcial ﬁgures to be true. The reframed are told (programmed) how to act and so they do. The Derbyshire Chief Constable in the ﬁrst period of lockdown when the black dye and drones nonsense was going on was Peter Goodman. He was the man who severed the connection between his force and the Derbyshire Constabulary Male Voice Choir when he decided that it was not inclusive enough to allow women to join. The fact it was a male voice choir making a particular sound produced by male voices seemed to elude a guy who terrifyingly ran policing in Derbyshire. He retired weeks a er his force was condemned as disgraceful by former Supreme Court Justice Jonathan Sumption for their behaviour over extreme lockdown impositions. Goodman was replaced by his deputy Rachel Swann who was in charge when her oﬃcers were ‘horriﬁed’. The police statement over the boys commi ing the hanging-oﬀence of playing football included the line about the youngsters being ‘irresponsible in the times we are all living through’ missing the point that the real relevance of the ‘times we are all living through’ is the imposition of fascism enforced by psychopaths and reframed minds of police oﬃcers playing such a vital part in establishing the fascist tyranny that their own children and grandchildren will have to live in their entire lives. As a deﬁnition of insanity that is hard to beat although it might be run close by imposing masks on people that can have a serious eﬀect on their health while wearing a face nappy all day themselves. Once again public and police do it for the same reason – the authorities tell them to and who are they to have the self-respect to say no?

Wokers in uniform How reframed do you have to be to arrest a six-year-old and take him to court for picking a flower while waiting for a bus? Brain dead police and oﬃcialdom did just that in North Carolina where criminal proceedings happen regularly for children under nine. A orney Julie Boyer gave the six-year-old crayons and a colouring book during the ‘ﬂower’ hearing while the ‘adults’ decided his fate. County Chief District Court Judge Jay Corpening asked: ‘Should a child that believes in Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny and the tooth fairy be making life-altering decisions?’ Well, of course not, but common sense has no meaning when you have a common purpose and a reframed mind. Treating children in this way, and police operating in American schools, is all part of the psychological preparation for children to accept a police state as normal all their adult lives. The same goes for all the cameras and biometric tracking technology in schools. Police training is focused on reframing them as snowﬂake Wokers and this is happening in the military. Pentagon top brass said that ‘training sessions on extremism’ were needed for troops who asked why they were so focused on the Capitol Building riot when Black Lives Ma er riots were ignored. What’s the diﬀerence between them some apparently and rightly asked. Actually, there is a diﬀerence. Five people died in the Capitol riot, only one through violence, and that was a police oﬃcer shooting an unarmed protestor. BLM riots killed at least 25 people and cost billions. Asking the question prompted the psychopaths and reframed minds that run the Pentagon to say that more ‘education’ (programming) was needed. Troop training is all based on psychological programming to make them fodder for the Cult – ‘Military men are just dumb, stupid animals to be used as pawns in foreign policy’ as Cult-to-his-DNA former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger famously said. Governments see the police in similar terms and it’s time for those among them who can see this to defend the people and stop being enforcers of the Cult agenda upon the people.  The US military, like the country itself, is being targeted for destruction through a long list of Woke impositions. Cult-owned gaga ‘President’ Biden signed an executive order when he took oﬃce to allow taxpayer money to pay for transgender surgery for active military personnel and veterans. Are you a man soldier? No, I’m a LGBTQIA+ with a hint of Skoliosexual and Spectrasexual. Oh, good man. Bad choice of words you bigot. The Pentagon announced in March, 2021, the appointment of the ﬁrst ‘diversity and inclusion oﬃcer’ for US Special Forces. Richard Torres-Estrada arrived with the publication of a ‘D&I Strategic Plan which will guide the enterprise-wide eﬀort to institutionalize and sustain D&I’. If you think a Special Forces ‘Strategic Plan’ should have something to do with defending America you haven’t been paying a ention. Defending Woke is now the military’s new role. Torres-Estrada has posted images comparing Donald Trump with Adolf Hitler and we can expect no bias from him as a representative of the supposedly non-political Pentagon. Cable news host Tucker Carlson said: ‘The Pentagon is now the Yale faculty lounge but with cruise missiles.’ Meanwhile Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin, a board member of weapons-maker Raytheon with stock and compensation interests in October, 2020, worth $1.4 million, said he was purging the military of the ‘enemy within’ – anyone who isn’t Woke and supports Donald Trump. Austin refers to his targets as ‘racist extremists’ while in true Woke fashion being himself a racist extremist. Pentagon documents pledge to ‘eradicate, eliminate and conquer all forms of racism, sexism and homophobia’. The deﬁnitions of these are decided by ‘diversity and inclusion commi ees’ peopled by those who see racism, sexism and homophobia in every situation and opinion. Woke (the Cult) is dismantling the US military and purging testosterone as China expands its military and gives its troops ‘masculinity training’. How do we think that is going to end when this is all Cult coordinated? The US military, like the British military, is controlled by Woke and spineless top brass who just go along with it out of personal career interests.

‘Woke’ means fast asleep Mind control and perception manipulation techniques used on individuals to create group-think have been unleashed on the global population in general. As a result many have no capacity to see the obvious fascist agenda being installed all around them or what ‘Covid’ is really all about. Their brains are ﬁrewalled like a computer system not to process certain concepts, thoughts and realisations that are bad for the Cult. The young are most targeted as the adults they will be when the whole fascist global state is planned to be fully implemented. They need to be prepared for total compliance to eliminate all pushback from entire generations. The Cult has been pouring billions into taking complete control of ‘education’ from schools to universities via its operatives and corporations and not least Bill Gates as always. The plan has been to transform ‘education’ institutions into programming centres for the mentality of ‘Woke’. James McConnell, professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, wrote in Psychology Today in 1970:

The day has come when we can combine sensory deprivation with drugs, hypnosis, and astute manipulation of reward and punishment, to gain almost absolute control over an individual’s behaviour. It should then be possible to achieve a very rapid and highly effective type of brainwashing that would allow us to make dramatic changes in a person’s behaviour and personality ...

… We should reshape society so that we all would be trained from birth to want to do what society wants us to do. We have the techniques to do it... no-one owns his own personality you acquired, and there’s no reason to believe you should have the right to refuse to acquire a new personality if your old one is anti-social.


This was the potential for mass brainwashing in 1970 and the mentality there displayed captures the arrogant psychopathy that drives it forward. I emphasise that not all young people have succumbed to Woke programming and those that haven’t are incredibly impressive people given that today’s young are the most perceptually-targeted generations in history with all the technology now involved. Vast swathes of the young generations, however, have fallen into the spell – and that’s what it is – of Woke. The Woke mentality and perceptual program is founded on inversion and you will appreciate later why that is so signiﬁcant. Everything with Woke is inverted and the opposite of what it is claimed to be. Woke was a term used in African-American culture from the 1900s and referred to an awareness of social and racial justice. This is not the meaning of the modern version or ‘New Woke’ as I call it in The Answer. Oh, no, Woke today means something very diﬀerent no ma er how much Wokers may seek to hide that and insist Old Woke and New Woke are the same. See if you ﬁnd any ‘awareness of social justice’ here in the modern variety:

• Woke demands ‘inclusivity’ while excluding anyone with a diﬀerent opinion and calls for mass censorship to silence other views.

• Woke claims to stand against oppression when imposing oppression is the foundation of all that it does. It is the driver of political correctness which is nothing more than a Cult invention to manipulate the population to silence itself.

• Woke believes itself to be ‘liberal’ while pursuing a global society that can only be described as fascist (see ‘anti-fascist’ fascist Antifa).

• Woke calls for ‘social justice’ while spreading injustice wherever it goes against the common ‘enemy’ which can be easily identiﬁed as a diﬀering view.

• Woke is supposed to be a metaphor for ‘awake’ when it is solid- gold asleep and deep in a Cult-induced coma that meets the criteria for ‘oﬀ with the fairies’.

 I state these points as obvious facts if people only care to look. I don’t do this with a sense of condemnation. We need to appreciate that the onslaught of perceptual programming on the young has been incessant and merciless. I can understand why so many have been reframed, or, given their youth, framed from the start to see the world as the Cult demands. The Cult has had access to their minds day a er day in its ‘education’ system for their entire formative years. Perception is formed from information received and the Cult- created system is a life-long download of information delivered to elicit a particular perception, thus behaviour. The more this has expanded into still new extremes in recent decades and ever- increasing censorship has deleted other opinions and information why wouldn’t that lead to a perceptual reframing on a mass scale? I have described already cradle-to-grave programming and in more recent times the targeting of young minds from birth to adulthood has entered the stratosphere. This has taken the form of skewing what is ‘taught’ to ﬁt the Cult agenda and the omnipresent techniques of group-think to isolate non-believers and pressure them into line. There has always been a tendency to follow the herd, but we really are in a new world now in relation to that. We have parents who can see the ‘Covid’ hoax told by their children not to stop them wearing masks at school, being ‘Covid’ tested or having the ‘vaccine’ in fear of the peer-pressure consequences of being diﬀerent. What is ‘peer-pressure’ if not pressure to conform to group-think? Renegade Minds never group-think and always retain a set of perceptions that are unique to them. Group-think is always underpinned by consequences for not group-thinking. Abuse now aimed at those refusing DNA-manipulating ‘Covid vaccines’ are a potent example of this. The biggest pressure to conform comes from the very group which is itself being manipulated. ‘I am programmed to be part of a hive mind and so you must be.’  Woke control structures in ‘education’ now apply to every mainstream organisation. Those at the top of the ‘education’ hierarchy (the Cult) decide the policy. This is imposed on governments through the Cult network; governments impose it on schools, colleges and universities; their leadership impose the policy on teachers and academics and they impose it on children and students. At any level where there is resistance, perhaps from a teacher or university lecturer, they are targeted by the authorities and o en ﬁred. Students themselves regularly demand the dismissal of academics (increasingly few) at odds with the narrative that the students have been programmed to believe in. It is quite a thought that students who are being targeted by the Cult become so consumed by programmed group-think that they launch protests and demand the removal of those who are trying to push back against those targeting the students. Such is the scale of perceptual inversion. We see this with ‘Covid’ programming as the Cult imposes the rules via psycho-psychologists and governments on shops, transport companies and businesses which impose them on their staﬀ who impose them on their customers who pressure Pushbackers to conform to the will of the Cult which is in the process of destroying them and their families. Scan all aspects of society and you will see the same sequence every time.

Fact free Woke and hijacking the ‘left’ There is no more potent example of this than ‘Woke’, a mentality only made possible by the deletion of factual evidence by an ‘education’ system seeking to produce an ever more uniform society. Why would you bother with facts when you don’t know any? Deletion of credible history both in volume and type is highly relevant. Orwell said: ‘Who controls the past controls the future: who controls the present controls the past.’ They who control the perception of the past control the perception of the future and they who control the present control the perception of the past through the writing and deleting of history. Why would you oppose the imposition of Marxism in the name of Wokeism when you don’t know that Marxism cost at least 100 million lives in the 20th century alone? Watch videos and read reports in which Woker generations are asked basic historical questions – it’s mind-blowing. A survey of 2,000 people found that six percent of millennials (born approximately early1980s to early 2000s) believed the Second World War (1939-1945) broke out with the assassination of President Kennedy (in 1963) and one in ten thought Margaret Thatcher was British Prime Minister at the time. She was in oﬃce between 1979 and 1990. We are in a post-fact society. Provable facts are no defence against the fascism of political correctness or Silicon Valley censorship. Facts don’t ma er anymore as we have witnessed with the ‘Covid’ hoax. Sacriﬁcing uniqueness to the Woke group-think religion is all you are required to do and that means thinking for yourself is the biggest Woke no, no. All religions are an expression of group-think and censorship and Woke is just another religion with an orthodoxy defended by group-think and censorship. Burned at the stake becomes burned on Twi er which leads back eventually to burned at the stake as Woke humanity regresses to ages past.  The biggest Woke inversion of all is its creators and funders. I grew up in a traditional le of centre political household on a council estate in Leicester in the 1950s and 60s – you know, the le that challenged the power of wealth-hoarding elites and threats to freedom of speech and opinion. In those days students went on marches defending freedom of speech while today’s Wokers march for its deletion. What on earth could have happened? Those very elites (collectively the Cult) that we opposed in my youth and early life have funded into existence the antithesis of that former le and hĳacked the ‘brand’ while inverting everything it ever stood for. We have a mentality that calls itself ‘liberal’ and ‘progressive’ while acting like fascists. Cult billionaires and their corporations have funded themselves into control of ‘education’ to ensure that Woke programming is unceasing throughout the formative years of children and young people and that non-Wokers are isolated (that word again) whether they be students, teachers or college professors. The Cult has funded into existence the now colossal global network of Woke organisations that have spawned and promoted all the ‘causes’ on the Cult wish-list for global transformation and turned Wokers into demanders of them. Does anyone really think it’s a coincidence that the Cult agenda for humanity is a carbon (sorry) copy of the societal transformations desired by Woke?? These are only some of them:


Political correctness:The means by which the Cult deletes all public debates that it knows it cannot win if we had the free-ﬂow of information and evidence.


Human-caused ‘climate change’: The means by which the Cult seeks to transform society into a globally-controlled dictatorship imposing its will over the ﬁne detail of everyone’s lives ‘to save the planet’ which doesn’t actually need saving. Transgender obsession: Preparing collective perception to accept the ‘new human’ which would not have genders because it would be created technologically and not through procreation. I’ll have much more on this in Human 2.0.


Race obsession:The means by which the Cult seeks to divide and rule the population by triggering racial division through the perception that society is more racist than ever when the opposite is the case. Is it perfect in that regard? No. But to compare today with the racism of apartheid and segregation brought to an end by the civil rights movement in the 1960s is to insult the memory of that movement and inspirations like Martin Luther King. Why is the ‘anti-racism’ industry (which it is) so dominated by privileged white people?


White supremacy: This is a label used by privileged white people to demonise poor and deprived white people pushing back on tyranny to marginalise and destroy them. White people are being especially targeted as the dominant race by number within Western society which the Cult seeks to transform in its image. If you want to change a society you must weaken and undermine its biggest group and once you have done that by using the other groups you next turn on them to do the same … ‘Then they came for the Jews and I was not a Jew so I did nothing.’


Mass migration: The mass movement of people from the Middle East, Africa and Asia into Europe, from the south into the United States and from Asia into Australia are another way the Cult seeks to dilute the racial, cultural and political inﬂuence of white people on Western society. White people ask why their governments appear to be working against them while being politically and culturally biased towards incoming cultures. Well, here’s your answer. In the same way sexually ‘straight’ people, men and women, ask why the authorities are biased against them in favour of other sexualities. The answer is the same – that’s the way the Cult wants it to be for very sinister motives.


These are all central parts of the Cult agenda and central parts of the Woke agenda and Woke was created and continues to be funded to an immense degree by Cult billionaires and corporations. If anyone begins to say ‘coincidence’ the syllables should stick in their throat.

Billionaire ‘social justice warriors’ Joe Biden is a 100 percent-owned asset of the Cult and the Wokers’ man in the White House whenever he can remember his name and for however long he lasts with his rapidly diminishing cognitive function. Even walking up the steps of an aircra without falling on his arse would appear to be a challenge. He’s not an empty-shell puppet or anything. From the minute Biden took oﬃce (or the Cult did) he began his executive orders promoting the Woke wish-list. You will see the Woke agenda imposed ever more severely because it’s really the Cult agenda. Woke organisations and activist networks spawned by the Cult are funded to the extreme so long as they promote what the Cult wants to happen. Woke is funded to promote ‘social justice’ by billionaires who become billionaires by destroying social justice. The social justice mantra is only a cover for dismantling social justice and funded by billionaires that couldn’t give a damn about social justice. Everything makes sense when you see that. One of Woke’s premier funders is Cult billionaire ﬁnancier George Soros who said: ‘I am basically there to make money, I cannot and do not look at the social consequences of what I do.’ This is the same Soros who has given more than $32 billion to his Open Society Foundations global Woke network and funded Black Lives Ma er, mass immigration into Europe and the United States, transgender activism, climate change activism, political correctness and groups targeting ‘white supremacy’ in the form of privileged white thugs that dominate Antifa. What a scam it all is and when you are dealing with the unquestioning fact-free zone of Woke scamming them is child’s play. All you need to pull it oﬀ in all these organisations are a few in-the-know agents of the Cult and an army of naïve, reframed, uninformed, narcissistic, know-nothings convinced of their own self-righteousness, self-purity and virtue. Soros and fellow billionaires and billionaire corporations have poured hundreds of millions into Black Lives Ma er and connected groups and promoted them to a global audience. None of this is motivated by caring about black people. These are the billionaires that have controlled and exploited a system that leaves millions of black people in abject poverty and deprivation which they do absolutely nothing to address. The same Cult networks funding BLM were behind the slave trade! Black Lives Ma er hĳacked a phrase that few would challenge and they have turned this laudable concept into a political weapon to divide society. You know that BLM is a fraud when it claims that All Lives Ma er, the most inclusive statement of all, is ‘racist’. BLM and its Cult masters don’t want to end racism. To them it’s a means to an end to control all of humanity never mind the colour, creed, culture or background. What has destroying the nuclear family got to do with ending racism? Nothing – but that is one of the goals of BLM and also happens to be a goal of the Cult as I have been exposing in my books for decades. Stealing children from loving parents and giving schools ever more power to override parents is part of that same agenda. BLM is a Marxist organisation and why would that not be the case when the Cult created Marxism and BLM? Patrisse Cullors, a BLM co-founder, said in a 2015 video that she and her fellow organisers, including co-founder Alicia Garza, are ‘trained Marxists’. The lady known a er marriage as Patrisse Khan-Cullors bought a $1.4 million home in 2021 in one of the whitest areas of California with a black population of just 1.6 per cent and has so far bought four high-end homes for a total of $3.2 million. How very Marxist. There must be a bit of spare in the BLM coﬀers, however, when Cult corporations and billionaires have handed over the best part of $100 million. Many black people can see that Black Lives Ma er is not working for them, but against them, and this is still more conﬁrmation. Black journalist Jason Whitlock, who had his account suspended by Twi er for simply linking to the story about the ‘Marxist’s’ home buying spree, said that BLM leaders are ‘making millions of dollars oﬀ the backs of these dead black men who they wouldn’t spit on if they were on ﬁre and alive’.

Black Lies Matter Cult assets and agencies came together to promote BLM in the wake of the death of career criminal George Floyd who had been jailed a number of times including for forcing his way into the home of a black woman with others in a raid in which a gun was pointed at her stomach. Floyd was ﬁlmed being held in a Minneapolis street in 2020 with the knee of a police oﬃcer on his neck and he subsequently died. It was an appalling thing for the oﬃcer to do, but the same technique has been used by police on peaceful protestors of lockdown without any outcry from the Woke brigade. As unquestioning supporters of the Cult agenda Wokers have supported lockdown and all the ‘Covid’ claptrap while a acking anyone standing up to the tyranny imposed in its name. Court documents would later include details of an autopsy on Floyd by County Medical Examiner Dr Andrew Baker who concluded that Floyd had taken a fatal level of the drug fentanyl. None of this ma ered to fact-free, question-free, Woke. Floyd’s death was followed by worldwide protests against police brutality amid calls to defund the police. Throwing babies out with the bathwater is a Woke speciality. In the wake of the murder of British woman Sarah Everard a Green Party member of the House of Lords, Baroness Jones of Moulescoomb (Nincompoopia would have been be er), called for a 6pm curfew for all men. This would be in breach of the Geneva Conventions on war crimes which ban collective punishment, but that would never have crossed the black and white Woke mind of Baroness Nincompoopia who would have been far too convinced of her own self-righteousness to compute such details. Many American cities did defund the police in the face of Floyd riots and a er $15 million was deleted from the police budget in Washington DC under useless Woke mayor Muriel Bowser car- jacking alone rose by 300 percent and within six months the US capital recorded its highest murder rate in 15 years. The same happened in Chicago and other cities in line with the Cult/Soros plan to bring fear to streets and neighbourhoods by reducing the police, releasing violent criminals and not prosecuting crime. This is the mob-rule agenda that I have warned in the books was coming for so long. Shootings in the area of Minneapolis where Floyd was arrested increased by 2,500 percent compared with the year before. Defunding the police over George Floyd has led to a big increase in dead people with many of them black. Police protection for politicians making these decisions stayed the same or increased as you would expect from professional hypocrites. The Cult doesn’t actually want to abolish the police. It wants to abolish local control over the police and hand it to federal government as the psychopaths advance the Hunger Games Society. Many George Floyd protests turned into violent riots with black stores and businesses destroyed by ﬁre and looting across America fuelled by Black Lives Ma er. Woke doesn’t do irony. If you want civil rights you must loot the liquor store and the supermarket and make oﬀ with a smart TV. It’s the only way.

It’s not a race war – it’s a class war Black people are patronised by privileged blacks and whites alike and told they are victims of white supremacy. I ﬁnd it extraordinary to watch privileged blacks supporting the very system and bloodline networks behind the slave trade and parroting the same Cult-serving manipulative crap of their privileged white, o en billionaire, associates. It is indeed not a race war but a class war and colour is just a diversion. Black Senator Cory Booker and black Congresswoman Maxine Waters, more residents of Nincompoopia, personify this. Once you tell people they are victims of someone else you devalue both their own responsibility for their plight and the power they have to impact on their reality and experience. Instead we have: ‘You are only in your situation because of whitey – turn on them and everything will change.’ It won’t change. Nothing changes in our lives unless we change it. Crucial to that is never seeing yourself as a victim and always as the creator of your reality. Life is a simple sequence of choice and consequence. Make diﬀerent choices and you create diﬀerent consequences. You have to make those choices – not Black Lives Ma er, the Woke Maﬁa and anyone else that seeks to dictate your life. Who are they these Wokers, an emotional and psychological road traﬃc accident, to tell you what to do? Personal empowerment is the last thing the Cult and its Black Lives Ma er want black people or anyone else to have. They claim to be defending the underdog while creating and perpetuating the underdog. The Cult’s worst nightmare is human unity and if they are going to keep blacks, whites and every other race under economic servitude and control then the focus must be diverted from what they have in common to what they can be manipulated to believe divides them. Blacks have to be told that their poverty and plight is the fault of the white bloke living on the street in the same poverty and with the same plight they are experiencing. The diﬀerence is that your plight black people is due to him, a white supremacist with ‘white privilege’ living on the street. Don’t unite as one human family against your mutual oppressors and suppressors – ﬁght the oppressor with the white face who is as ﬁnancially deprived as you are. The Cult knows that as its ‘Covid’ agenda moves into still new levels of extremism people are going to respond and it has been spreading the seeds of disunity everywhere to stop a united response to the evil that targets all of us.  Racist a acks on ‘whiteness’ are ge ing ever more outrageous and especially through the American Democratic Party which has an appalling history for anti-black racism. Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton and Nancy Pelosi all eulogised about Senator Robert Byrd at his funeral in 2010 a er a nearly 60-year career in Congress. Byrd was a brutal Ku Klux Klan racist and a violent abuser of Cathy O’Brien in MKUltra. He said he would never ﬁght in the military ‘with a negro by my side’ and ‘rather I should die a thousand times, and see Old Glory trampled in the dirt never to rise again, than to see this beloved land of ours become degraded by race mongrels, a throwback to the blackest specimen from the wilds’. Biden called Byrd a ‘very close friend and mentor’. These ‘Woke’ hypocrites are not anti-racist they are anti-poor and anti-people not of their perceived class. Here is an illustration of the scale of anti-white racism to which we have now descended. Seriously Woke and moronic New York Times contributor Damon Young described whiteness as a ‘virus’ that ‘like other viruses will not die until there are no bodies le for it to infect’. He went on: ‘… the only way to stop it is to locate it, isolate it, extract it, and kill it.’ Young can say that as a black man with no consequences when a white man saying the same in reverse would be facing a jail sentence. That’s racism. We had super-Woke numbskull senators Tammy Duckworth and Mazie Hirono saying they would object to future Biden Cabinet appointments if he did not nominate more Asian Americans and Paciﬁc Islanders. Never mind the ability of the candidate what do they look like? Duckworth said: ‘I will vote for racial minorities and I will vote for LGBTQ, but anyone else I’m not voting for.’ Appointing people on the grounds of race is illegal, but that was not a problem for this ludicrous pair. They were on-message and that’s a free pass in any situation.

Critical race racism White children are told at school they are intrinsically racist as they are taught the divisive ‘critical race theory’. This claims that the law and legal institutions are inherently racist and that race is a socially constructed concept used by white people to further their economic and political interests at the expense of people of colour. White is a ‘virus’ as we’ve seen. Racial inequality results from ‘social, economic, and legal diﬀerences that white people create between races to maintain white interests which leads to poverty and criminality in minority communities‘. I must tell that to the white guy sleeping on the street. The principal of East Side Community School in New York sent white parents a manifesto that called on them to become ‘white traitors’ and advocate for full ‘white abolition’. These people are teaching your kids when they urgently need a psychiatrist. The ‘school’ included a chart with ‘eight white identities’ that ranged from ‘white supremacist’ to ‘white abolition’ and deﬁned the behaviour white people must follow to end ‘the regime of whiteness’. Woke blacks and their privileged white associates are acting exactly like the slave owners of old and Ku Klux Klan racists like Robert Byrd. They are too full of their own self- purity to see that, but it’s true. Racism is not a body type; it’s a state of mind that can manifest through any colour, creed or culture. Another racial fraud is ‘equity’. Not equality of treatment and opportunity – equity. It’s a term spun as equality when it means something very diﬀerent. Equality in its true sense is a raising up while ‘equity’ is a race to the bo om. Everyone in the same level of poverty is ‘equity’. Keep everyone down – that’s equity. The Cult doesn’t want anyone in the human family to be empowered and BLM leaders, like all these ‘anti-racist’ organisations, continue their privileged, pampered existence by perpetuating the perception of gathering racism. When is the last time you heard an ‘anti-racist’ or ‘anti-Semitism’ organisation say that acts of racism and discrimination have fallen? It’s not in the interests of their fund- raising and power to inﬂuence and the same goes for the professional soccer anti-racism operation, Kick It Out. Two things conﬁrmed that the Black Lives Ma er riots in the summer of 2020 were Cult creations. One was that while anti-lockdown protests were condemned in this same period for ‘transmi ing ‘Covid’ the authorities supported mass gatherings of Black Lives Ma er supporters. I even saw self-deluding people claiming to be doctors say the two types of protest were not the same. No – the non-existent ‘Covid’ was in favour of lockdowns and a acked those that protested against them while ‘Covid’ supported Black Lives Ma er and kept well away from its protests. The whole thing was a joke and as lockdown protestors were arrested, o en brutally, by reframed Face-Nappies we had the grotesque sight of police oﬃcers taking the knee to Black Lives Ma er, a Cult-funded Marxist organisation that supports violent riots and wants to destroy the nuclear family and white people.

He’s not white? Shucks! Woke obsession with race was on display again when ten people were shot dead in Boulder, Colorado, in March, 2021. Cult-owned Woke TV channels like CNN said the shooter appeared to be a white man and Wokers were on Twi er condemning ‘violent white men’ with the usual mantras. Then the shooter’s name was released as Ahmad Al Aliwi Alissa, an anti-Trump Arab-American, and the sigh of disappointment could be heard ﬁve miles away. Never mind that ten people were dead and what that meant for their families. Race baiting was all that ma ered to these sick Cult-serving people like Barack Obama who exploited the deaths to further divide America on racial grounds which is his job for the Cult. This is the man that ‘racist’ white Americans made the ﬁrst black president of the United States and then gave him a second term. Not-very-bright Obama has become ﬁlthy rich on the back of that and today appears to have a big inﬂuence on the Biden administration. Even so he’s still a downtrodden black man and a victim of white supremacy. This disingenuous fraud reveals the contempt he has for black people when he puts on a Deep South Alabama accent whenever he talks to them, no, at them.  Another BLM red ﬂag was how the now fully-Woke (fully-Cult) and fully-virtue-signalled professional soccer authorities had their teams taking the knee before every match in support of Marxist Black Lives Ma er. Soccer authorities and clubs displayed ‘Black Lives Ma er’ on the players’ shirts and ﬂashed the name on electronic billboards around the pitch. Any fans that condemned what is a Freemasonic taking-the-knee ritual were widely condemned as you would expect from the Woke virtue-signallers of professional sport and the now fully-Woke media. We have reverse racism in which you are banned from criticising any race or culture except for white people for whom anything goes – say what you like, no problem. What has this got to do with racial harmony and equality? We’ve had black supremacists from Black Lives Ma er telling white people to fall to their knees in the street and apologise for their white supremacy. Black supremacists acting like white supremacist slave owners of the past couldn’t breach their self- obsessed, race-obsessed sense of self-purity. Joe Biden appointed a race-obsessed black supremacist Kristen Clarke to head the Justice Department Civil Rights Division. Clarke claimed that blacks are endowed with ‘greater mental, physical and spiritual abilities’ than whites. If anyone reversed that statement they would be viliﬁed. Clarke is on-message so no problem. She’s never seen a black-white situation in which the black ﬁgure is anything but a virtuous victim and she heads the Civil Rights Division which should treat everyone the same or it isn’t civil rights. Another perception of the Renegade Mind: If something or someone is part of the Cult agenda they will be supported by Woke governments and media no ma er what. If they’re not, they will be condemned and censored. It really is that simple and so racist Clarke prospers despite (make that because of) her racism.

The end of culture Biden’s administration is full of such racial, cultural and economic bias as the Cult requires the human family to be divided into warring factions. We are now seeing racially-segregated graduations and everything, but everything, is deﬁned through the lens of perceived ‘racism. We have ‘racist’ mathematics, ‘racist’ food and even ‘racist’ plants. World famous Kew Gardens in London said it was changing labels on plants and ﬂowers to tell its pre-‘Covid’ more than two million visitors a year how racist they are. Kew director Richard Deverell said this was part of an eﬀort to ‘move quickly to decolonise collections’ a er they were approached by one Ajay Chhabra ‘an actor with an insight into how sugar cane was linked to slavery’. They are plants you idiots. ‘Decolonisation’ in the Woke manual really means colonisation of society with its mentality and by extension colonisation by the Cult. We are witnessing a new Chinese-style ‘Cultural Revolution’ so essential to the success of all Marxist takeovers. Our cultural past and traditions have to be swept away to allow a new culture to be built-back-be er. Woke targeting of long-standing Western cultural pillars including historical monuments and cancelling of historical ﬁgures is what happened in the Mao revolution in China which ‘purged remnants of capitalist and traditional elements from Chinese society‘ and installed Maoism as the dominant ideology‘. For China see the Western world today and for ‘dominant ideology’ see Woke. Be er still see Marxism or Maoism. The ‘Covid’ hoax has speciﬁcally sought to destroy the arts and all elements of Western culture from people meeting in a pub or restaurant to closing theatres, music venues, sports stadiums, places of worship and even banning singing. Destruction of Western society is also why criticism of any religion is banned except for Christianity which again is the dominant religion as white is the numerically- dominant race. Christianity may be fading rapidly, but its history and traditions are weaved through the fabric of Western society. Delete the pillars and other structures will follow until the whole thing collapses. I am not a Christian defending that religion when I say that. I have no religion. It’s just a fact. To this end Christianity has itself been turned Woke to usher its own downfall and its ranks are awash with ‘change agents’ – knowing and unknowing – at every level including Pope Francis (definitely knowing) and the clueless Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby (possibly not, but who can be sure?). Woke seeks to coordinate a acks on Western culture, traditions, and ways of life through ‘intersectionality’ deﬁned as ‘the complex, cumulative way in which the eﬀects of multiple forms of discrimination (such as racism, sexism, and classism) combine, overlap, or intersect especially in the experiences of marginalised individuals or groups’. Wade through the Orwellian Woke-speak and this means coordinating disparate groups in a common cause to overthrow freedom and liberal values.  The entire structure of public institutions has been infested with Woke – government at all levels, political parties, police, military, schools, universities, advertising, media and trade unions. This abomination has been achieved through the Cult web by appointing Wokers to positions of power and ba ering non-Wokers into line through intimidation, isolation and threats to their job. Many have been ﬁred in the wake of the empathy-deleted, vicious hostility of ‘social justice’ Wokers and the desire of gutless, spineless employers to virtue-signal their Wokeness. Corporations are ﬁlled with Wokers today, most notably those in Silicon Valley. Ironically at the top they are not Woke at all. They are only exploiting the mentality their Cult masters have created and funded to censor and enslave while the Wokers cheer them on until it’s their turn. Thus the Woke ‘liberal le ’ is an inversion of the traditional liberal le . Campaigning for justice on the grounds of power and wealth distribution has been replaced by campaigning for identity politics. The genuine traditional le would never have taken money from today’s billionaire abusers of fairness and justice and nor would the billionaires have wanted to fund that genuine le . It would not have been in their interests to do so. The division of opinion in those days was between the haves and have nots. This all changed with Cult manipulated and funded identity politics. The division of opinion today is between Wokers and non-Wokers and not income brackets. Cult corporations and their billionaires may have taken wealth disparity to cataclysmic levels of injustice, but as long as they speak the language of Woke, hand out the dosh to the Woke network and censor the enemy they are ‘one of us’. Billionaires who don’t give a damn about injustice are laughing at them till their bellies hurt. Wokers are not even close to self-aware enough to see that. The transformed ‘le ’ dynamic means that Wokers who drone on about ‘social justice’ are funded by billionaires that have destroyed social justice the world over. It’s why they are billionaires.

The climate con Nothing encapsulates what I have said more comprehensively than the hoax of human-caused global warming. I have detailed in my books over the years how Cult operatives and organisations were the pump-primers from the start of the climate con. A purpose-built vehicle for this is the Club of Rome established by the Cult in 1968 with the Rockefellers and Rothschilds centrally involved all along. Their gofer frontman Maurice Strong, a Canadian oil millionaire, hosted the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 1992 where the global ‘green movement’ really expanded in earnest under the guiding hand of the Cult. The Earth Summit established Agenda 21 through the Cult-created-and-owned United Nations to use the illusion of human-caused climate change to justify the transformation of global society to save the world from climate disaster. It is a No-Problem-Reaction-Solution sold through governments, media, schools and universities as whole generations have been terriﬁed into believing that the world was going to end in their lifetimes unless what old people had inﬂicted upon them was stopped by a complete restructuring of how everything is done. Chill, kids, it’s all a hoax. Such restructuring is precisely what the Cult agenda demands (purely by coincidence of course). Today this has been given the codename of the Great Reset which is only an updated term for Agenda 21 and its associated Agenda 2030. The la er, too, is administered through the UN and was voted into being by the General Assembly in 2015. Both 21 and 2030 seek centralised control of all resources and food right down to the raindrops falling on your own land. These are some of the demands of Agenda 21 established in 1992. See if you recognise this society emerging today:

• End national sovereignty • State planning and management of all land resources, ecosystems, deserts, forests, mountains, oceans and fresh water; agriculture; rural development; biotechnology; and ensuring ‘equity’ • The state to ‘deﬁne the role’ of business and ﬁnancial resources • Abolition of private property • ‘Restructuring’ the family unit (see BLM) • Children raised by the state • People told what their job will be • Major restrictions on movement • Creation of ‘human se lement zones’ • Mass rese lement as people are forced to vacate land where they live • Dumbing down education • Mass global depopulation in pursuit of all the above

 The United Nations was created as a Trojan horse for world government. With the climate con of critical importance to promoting that outcome you would expect the UN to be involved. Oh, it’s involved all right. The UN is promoting Agenda 21 and Agenda 2030 justiﬁed by ‘climate change’ while also driving the climate hoax through its Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), one of the world’s most corrupt organisations. The IPCC has been lying ferociously and constantly since the day it opened its doors with the global media hanging unquestioningly on its every mendacious word. The Green movement is entirely Woke and has long lost its original environmental focus since it was co- opted by the Cult. An obsession with ‘global warming’ has deleted its values and scrambled its head. I experienced a small example of what I mean on a beautiful country walk that I have enjoyed several times a week for many years. The path merged into the ﬁelds and forests and you felt at one with the natural world. Then a ‘Green’ organisation, the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Wildlife Trust, took over part of the land and proceeded to cut down a large number of trees, including mature ones, to install a horrible big, bright steel ‘this-is-ours-stay-out’ fence that destroyed the whole atmosphere of this beautiful place. No one with a feel for nature would do that. Day a er day I walked to the sound of chainsaws and a magniﬁcent mature weeping willow tree that I so admired was cut down at the base of the trunk. When I challenged a Woke young girl in a green shirt (of course) about this vandalism she replied: ‘It’s a weeping willow – it will grow back.’ This is what people are paying for when they donate to the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Wildlife Trust and many other ‘green’ organisations today. It is not the environmental movement that I knew and instead has become a support-system – as with Extinction Rebellion – for a very dark agenda. Private jets for climate justice The Cult-owned, Gates-funded, World Economic Forum and its founder Klaus Schwab were behind the emergence of Greta Thunberg to harness the young behind the climate agenda and she was invited to speak to the world at … the UN. Schwab published a book, Covid-19: The Great Reset in 2020 in which he used the ‘Covid’ hoax and the climate hoax to lay out a new society straight out of Agenda 21 and Agenda 2030. Bill Gates followed in early 2021 when he took time out from destroying the world to produce a book in his name about the way to save it. Gates ﬂies across the world in private jets and admi ed that ‘I probably have one of the highest greenhouse gas footprints of anyone on the planet … my personal ﬂying alone is gigantic.’ He has also bid for the planet’s biggest private jet operator. Other climate change saviours who ﬂy in private jets include John Kerry, the US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, and actor Leonardo DiCaprio, a ‘UN Messenger of Peace with special focus on climate change’. These people are so full of bullshit they could corner the market in manure. We mustn’t be sceptical, though, because the Gates book, How to Avoid a Climate Disaster: The Solutions We Have and the Breakthroughs We Need, is a genuine a empt to protect the world and not an obvious pile of excrement a ributed to a mega-psychopath aimed at selling his masters’ plans for humanity. The Gates book and the other shite-pile by Klaus Schwab could have been wri en by the same person and may well have been. Both use ‘climate change’ and ‘Covid’ as the excuses for their new society and by coincidence the Cult’s World Economic Forum and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation promote the climate hoax and hosted Event 201 which pre-empted with a ‘simulation’ the very ‘coronavirus’ hoax that would be simulated for real on humanity within weeks. The British ‘royal’ family is promoting the ‘Reset’ as you would expect through Prince ‘climate change caused the war in Syria’ Charles and his hapless son Prince William who said that we must ‘reset our relationship with nature and our trajectory as a species’ to avoid a climate disaster. Amazing how many promotors of the ‘Covid’ and ‘climate change’ control systems are connected to Gates and the World Economic Forum. A ‘study’ in early 2021 claimed that carbon dioxide emissions must fall by the equivalent of a global lockdown roughly every two years for the next decade to save the planet. The ‘study’ appeared in the same period that the Schwab mob claimed in a video that lockdowns destroying the lives of billions are good because they make the earth ‘quieter’ with less ‘ambient noise’. They took down the video amid a public backlash for such arrogant, empathy-deleted stupidity You see, however, where they are going with this. Corinne Le Quéré, a professor at the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, University of East Anglia, was lead author of the climate lockdown study, and she writes for … the World Economic Forum. Gates calls in ‘his’ book for changing ‘every aspect of the economy’ (long-time Cult agenda) and for humans to eat synthetic ‘meat’ (predicted in my books) while cows and other farm animals are eliminated. Australian TV host and commentator Alan Jones described what carbon emission targets would mean for farm animals in Australia alone if emissions were reduced as demanded by 35 percent by 2030 and zero by 2050:

Well, let’s take agriculture, the total emissions from agriculture are about 75 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, equivalent. Now reduce that by 35 percent and you have to come down to 50 million tonnes, I’ve done the maths. So if you take for example 1.5 million cows, you’re going to have to reduce the herd by 525,000 [by] 2030, nine years, that’s 58,000 cows a year. The beef herd’s 30 million, reduce that by 35 percent, that’s 10.5 million, which means 1.2 million cattle have to go every year between now and 2030. This is insanity!

There are 75 million sheep. Reduce that by 35 percent, that’s 26 million sheep, that’s almost 3 million a year. So under the Paris Agreement over 30 million beasts. dairy cows, cattle, pigs and sheep would go. More than 8,000 every minute of every hour for the next decade, do these people know what they’re talking about?


Clearly they don’t at the level of campaigners, politicians and administrators. The Cult does know; that’s the outcome it wants. We are faced with not just a war on humanity. Animals and the natural world are being targeted and I have been saying since the ‘Covid’ hoax began that the plan eventually was to claim that the ‘deadly virus’ is able to jump from animals, including farm animals and domestic pets, to humans. Just before this book went into production came this story: ‘Russia registers world’s ﬁrst Covid-19 vaccine for cats & dogs as makers of Sputnik V warn pets & farm animals could spread virus’. The report said ‘top scientists warned that the deadly pathogen could soon begin spreading through homes and farms’ and ‘the next stage is the infection of farm and domestic animals’. Know the outcome and you’ll see the journey. Think what that would mean for animals and keep your eye on a term called zoonosis or zoonotic diseases which transmit between animals and humans. The Cult wants to break the connection between animals and people as it does between people and people. Farm animals ﬁt with the Cult agenda to transform food from natural to synthetic.

The gas of life is killing us There can be few greater examples of Cult inversion than the condemnation of carbon dioxide as a dangerous pollutant when it is the gas of life. Without it the natural world would be dead and so we would all be dead. We breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide while plants produce oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide. It is a perfect symbiotic relationship that the Cult wants to dismantle for reasons I will come to in the ﬁnal two chapters. Gates, Schwab, other Cult operatives and mindless repeaters, want the world to be ‘carbon neutral’ by at least 2050 and the earlier the be er. ‘Zero carbon’ is the cry echoed by lunatics calling for ‘Zero Covid’ when we already have it. These carbon emission targets will deindustrialise the world in accordance with Cult plans – the post- industrial, post-democratic society – and with so-called renewables like solar and wind not coming even close to meeting human energy needs blackouts and cold are inevitable. Texans got the picture in the winter of 2021 when a snow storm stopped wind turbines and solar panels from working and the lights went down along with water which relies on electricity for its supply system. Gates wants everything to be powered by electricity to ensure that his masters have the kill switch to stop all human activity, movement, cooking, water and warmth any time they like. The climate lie is so stupendously inverted that it claims we must urgently reduce carbon dioxide when we don’t have enough.  Co2 in the atmosphere is a li le above 400 parts per million when the optimum for plant growth is 2,000 ppm and when it falls anywhere near 150 ppm the natural world starts to die and so do we. It fell to as low as 280 ppm in an 1880 measurement in Hawaii and rose to 413 ppm in 2019 with industrialisation which is why the planet has become greener in the industrial period. How insane then that psychopathic madman Gates is not satisﬁed only with blocking the rise of Co2. He’s funding technology to suck it out of the atmosphere. The reason why will become clear. The industrial era is not destroying the world through Co2 and has instead turned around a potentially disastrous ongoing fall in Co2. Greenpeace co- founder and scientist Patrick Moore walked away from Greenpeace in 1986 and has exposed the green movement for fear-mongering and lies. He said that 500 million years ago there was 17 times more Co2 in the atmosphere than we have today and levels have been falling for hundreds of millions of years. In the last 150 million years Co2 levels in Earth’s atmosphere had reduced by 90 percent. Moore said that by the time humanity began to unlock carbon dioxide from fossil fuels we were at ‘38 seconds to midnight’ and in that sense: ‘Humans are [the Earth’s] salvation.’ Moore made the point that only half the Co2 emi ed by fossil fuels stays in the atmosphere and we should remember that all pollution pouring from chimneys that we are told is carbon dioxide is in fact nothing of the kind. It’s pollution. Carbon dioxide is an invisible gas.  William Happer, Professor of Physics at Princeton University and long-time government adviser on climate, has emphasised the Co2 deﬁciency for maximum growth and food production. Greenhouse growers don’t add carbon dioxide for a bit of fun. He said that most of the warming in the last 100 years, a er the earth emerged from the super-cold period of the ‘Li le Ice Age’ into a natural warming cycle, was over by 1940. Happer said that a peak year for warming in 1988 can be explained by a ‘monster El Nino’ which is a natural and cyclical warming of the Paciﬁc that has nothing to do with ‘climate change’. He said the eﬀect of Co2 could be compared to painting a wall with red paint in that once two or three coats have been applied it didn’t ma er how much more you slapped on because the wall will not get much redder. Almost all the eﬀect of the rise in Co2 has already happened, he said, and the volume in the atmosphere would now have to double to increase temperature by a single degree. Climate hoaxers know this and they have invented the most ridiculously complicated series of ‘feedback’ loops to try to overcome this rather devastating fact. You hear puppet Greta going on cluelessly about feedback loops and this is why.

The Sun affects temperature? No youclimate denier


Some other nonsense to contemplate: Climate graphs show that rises in temperature do not follow rises in Co2 – it’s the other way round with a lag between the two of some 800 years. If we go back 800 years from present time we hit the Medieval Warm Period when temperatures were higher than now without any industrialisation and this was followed by the Li le Ice Age when temperatures plummeted. The world was still emerging from these centuries of serious cold when many climate records began which makes the ever-repeated line of the ‘ho est year since records began’ meaningless when you are not comparing like with like. The coldest period of the Li le Ice Age corresponded with the lowest period of sunspot activity when the Sun was at its least active. Proper scientists will not be at all surprised by this when it conﬁrms the obvious fact that earth temperature is aﬀected by the scale of Sun activity and the energetic power that it subsequently emits; but when is the last time you heard a climate hoaxer talking about the Sun as a source of earth temperature?? Everything has to be focussed on Co2 which makes up just 0.117 percent of so-called greenhouse gases and only a fraction of even that is generated by human activity. The rest is natural. More than 90 percent of those greenhouse gases are water vapour and clouds (Fig 9). Ban moisture I say. Have you noticed that the climate hoaxers no longer use the polar bear as their promotion image? That’s because far from becoming extinct polar bear communities are stable or thriving. Joe Bastardi, American meteorologist, weather forecaster and outspoken critic of the climate lie, documents in his book The Climate Chronicles how weather pa erns and events claimed to be evidence of climate change have been happening since long before industrialisation: ‘What happened before naturally is happening again, as is to be expected given the cyclical nature of the climate due to the design of the planet.’ If you read the detailed background to the climate hoax in my other books you will shake your head and wonder how anyone could believe the crap which has spawned a multi-trillion dollar industry based on absolute garbage (see HIV causes AIDs and Sars-Cov-2 causes ‘Covid-19’). Climate and ‘Covid’ have much in common given they have the same source. They both have the contradictory everything factor in which everything is explained by reference to them. It’s hot – ‘it’s climate change’. It’s cold – ‘it’s climate change’. I got a sniﬄe – ‘it’s Covid’. I haven’t got a sniﬄe – ‘it’s Covid’. Not having a sniﬄe has to be a symptom of ‘Covid’. Everything is and not having a sniﬄe is especially dangerous if you are a slow walker. For sheer audacity I oﬀer you a Cambridge University ‘study’ that actually linked ‘Covid’ to ‘climate change’. It had to happen eventually. They concluded that climate change played a role in ‘Covid-19’ spreading from animals to humans because … wait for it … I kid you not … the two groups were forced closer together as populations grow. Er, that’s it. The whole foundation on which this depended was that ‘Bats are the likely zoonotic origin of SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2’. Well, they are not. They are nothing to do with it. Apart from bats not being the origin and therefore ‘climate change’ eﬀects on bats being irrelevant I am in awe of their academic insight. Where would we be without them? Not where we are that’s for sure. Figure 9: The idea that the gas of life is disastrously changing the climate is an insult to brain cell activity.

 One other point about the weather is that climate modiﬁcation is now well advanced and not every major weather event is natural – or earthquake come to that. I cover this subject at some length in other books. China is openly planning a rapid expansion of its weather modiﬁcation programme which includes changing the climate in an area more than one and a half times the size of India. China used weather manipulation to ensure clear skies during the 2008 Olympics in Beĳing. I have quoted from US military documents detailing how to employ weather manipulation as a weapon of war and they did that in the 1960s and 70s during the conﬂict in Vietnam with Operation Popeye manipulating monsoon rains for military purposes. Why would there be international treaties on weather modiﬁcation if it wasn’t possible? Of course it is. Weather is energetic information and it can be changed.

How was the climate hoax pulled off? See ‘Covid’ If you can get billions to believe in a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist you can get them to believe in human-caused climate change that doesn’t exist. Both are being used by the Cult to transform global society in the way it has long planned. Both hoaxes have been achieved in pre y much the same way. First you declare a lie is a fact. There’s a ‘virus’ you call SARS-Cov-2 or humans are warming the planet with their behaviour. Next this becomes, via Cult networks, the foundation of government, academic and science policy and belief. Those who parrot the mantra are given big grants to produce research that conﬁrms the narrative is true and ever more ‘symptoms’ are added to make the ‘virus’/’climate change’ sound even more scary. Scientists and researchers who challenge the narrative have their grants withdrawn and their careers destroyed. The media promote the lie as the unquestionable truth and censor those with an alternative view or evidence. A great percentage of the population believe what they are told as the lie becomes an everybody-knows-that and the believing-masses turn on those with a mind of their own. The technique has been used endlessly throughout human history. Wokers are the biggest promotors of the climate lie and ‘Covid’ fascism because their minds are owned by the Cult; their sense of self-righteous self-purity knows no bounds; and they exist in a bubble of reality in which facts are irrelevant and only get in the way of looking without seeing.  Running through all of this like veins in a blue cheese is control of information, which means control of perception, which means control of behaviour, which collectively means control of human society. The Cult owns the global media and Silicon Valley fascists for the simple reason that it has to. Without control of information it can’t control perception and through that human society. Examine every facet of the Cult agenda and you will see that anything supporting its introduction is never censored while anything pushing back is always censored. I say again: Psychopaths that know why they are doing this must go before Nuremberg trials and those that follow their orders must trot along behind them into the same dock. ‘I was just following orders’ didn’t work the ﬁrst time and it must not work now. Nuremberg trials must be held all over the world before public juries for politicians, government oﬃcials, police, compliant doctors, scientists and virologists, and all Cult operatives such as Gates, Tedros, Fauci, Vallance, Whi y, Ferguson, Zuckerberg, Wojcicki, Brin, Page, Dorsey, the whole damn lot of them – including, no especially, the psychopath psychologists. Without them and the brainless, gutless excuses for journalists that have repeated their lies, none of this could be happening. Nobody can be allowed to escape justice for the psychological and economic Armageddon they are all responsible for visiting upon the human race. As for the compliant, unquestioning, swathes of humanity, and the self-obsessed, all-knowing ignorance of the Wokers … don’t start me. God help their kids. God help their grandkids. God help them. CHAPTER NINE

We must have it? So what is it?

 Well I won’t back down. No, I won’t back down. You can stand me up at the Gates of Hell. But I won’t back down  Tom Petty



Iwill now focus on the genetically-manipulating ‘Covid vaccines’  which do not meet this oﬃcial deﬁnition of a vaccine by the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC): ‘A product that stimulates a person’s immune system to produce immunity to a speciﬁc disease, protecting the person from that disease.’ On that basis ‘Covid vaccines’ are not a vaccine in that the makers don’t even claim they stop infection or transmission. They are instead part of a multi-levelled conspiracy to change the nature of the human body and what it means to be ‘human’ and to depopulate an enormous swathe of humanity. What I shall call Human 1.0 is on the cusp of becoming Human 2.0 and for very sinister reasons. Before I get to the ‘Covid vaccine’ in detail here’s some background to vaccines in general. Government regulators do not test vaccines – the makers do – and the makers control which data is revealed and which isn’t. Children in America are given 50 vaccine doses by age six and 69 by age 19 and the eﬀect of the whole combined schedule has never been tested. Autoimmune diseases when the immune system a acks its own body have soared in the mass vaccine era and so has disease in general in children and the young. Why wouldn’t this be the case when vaccines target the immune system? The US government gave Big Pharma drug companies immunity from prosecution for vaccine death and injury in the 1986 National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act (NCVIA) and since then the government (taxpayer) has been funding compensation for the consequences of Big Pharma vaccines. The criminal and satanic drug giants can’t lose and the vaccine schedule has increased dramatically since 1986 for this reason. There is no incentive to make vaccines safe and a big incentive to make money by introducing ever more. Even against a ridiculously high bar to prove vaccine liability, and with the government controlling the hearing in which it is being challenged for compensation, the vaccine court has so far paid out more than $4 billion. These are the vaccines we are told are safe and psychopaths like Zuckerberg censor posts saying otherwise. The immunity law was even justiﬁed by a ruling that vaccines by their nature were ‘unavoidably unsafe’.  Check out the ingredients of vaccines and you will be shocked if you are new to this. They put that in children’s bodies?? What?? Try aluminium, a brain toxin connected to dementia, aborted foetal tissue and formaldehyde which is used to embalm corpses. World- renowned aluminium expert Christopher Exley had his research into the health eﬀect of aluminium in vaccines shut down by Keele University in the UK when it began taking funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Research when diseases ‘eradicated’ by vaccines began to decline and you will ﬁnd the fall began long before the vaccine was introduced. Sometimes the fall even plateaued a er the vaccine. Diseases like scarlet fever for which there was no vaccine declined in the same way because of environmental and other factors. A perfect case in point is the polio vaccine. Polio began when lead arsenate was ﬁrst sprayed as an insecticide and residues remained in food products. Spraying started in 1892 and the ﬁrst US polio epidemic came in Vermont in 1894. The simple answer was to stop spraying, but Rockefeller-created Big Pharma had a be er idea. Polio was decreed to be caused by the poliovirus which ‘spreads from person to person and can infect a person’s spinal cord’. Lead arsenate was replaced by the lethal DDT which had the same eﬀect of causing paralysis by damaging the brain and central nervous system. Polio plummeted when DDT was reduced and then banned, but the vaccine is still given the credit for something it didn’t do. Today by far the biggest cause of polio is the vaccines promoted by Bill Gates. Vaccine justice campaigner Robert Kennedy Jr, son of assassinated (by the Cult) US A orney General Robert Kennedy, wrote:

In 2017, the World Health Organization (WHO) reluctantly admitted that the global explosion in polio is predominantly vaccine strain. The most frightening epidemics in Congo, Afghanistan, and the Philippines, are all linked to vaccines. In fact, by 2018, 70% of global polio cases were vaccine strain.


 Vaccines make fortunes for Cult-owned Gates and Big Pharma while undermining the health and immune systems of the population. We had a glimpse of the mentality behind the Big Pharma cartel with a report on WION (World is One News), an international English language TV station based in India, which exposed the extraordinary behaviour of US drug company Pﬁzer over its ‘Covid vaccine’. The WION report told how Pﬁzer had made fantastic demands of Argentina, Brazil and other countries in return for its ‘vaccine’. These included immunity from prosecution, even for Pﬁzer negligence, government insurance to protect Pﬁzer from law suits and handing over as collateral sovereign assets of the country to include Argentina’s bank reserves, military bases and embassy buildings. Pﬁzer demanded the same of Brazil in the form of waiving sovereignty of its assets abroad; exempting Pﬁzer from Brazilian laws; and giving Pﬁzer immunity from all civil liability. This is a ‘vaccine’ developed with government funding. Big Pharma is evil incarnate as a creation of the Cult and all must be handed tickets to Nuremberg.

Phantom ‘vaccine’ for a phantom ‘disease’ I’ll expose the ‘Covid vaccine’ fraud and then go on to the wider background of why the Cult has set out to ‘vaccinate’ every man, woman and child on the planet for an alleged ‘new disease’ with a survival rate of 99.77 percent (or more) even by the grotesquely- manipulated ﬁgures of the World Health Organization and Johns Hopkins University. The ‘infection’ to ‘death’ ratio is 0.23 to 0.15 percent according to Stanford epidemiologist Dr John Ioannidis and while estimates vary the danger remains tiny. I say that if the truth be told the fake infection to fake death ratio is zero. Never mind all the evidence I have presented here and in The Answer that there is no ‘virus’ let us just focus for a moment on that death-rate ﬁgure of say 0.23 percent. The ﬁgure includes all those worldwide who have tested positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ and then died within 28 days or even longer of any other cause – any other cause. Now subtract all those illusory ‘Covid’ deaths on the global data sheets from the 0.23 percent. What do you think you would be le with? Zero. A vaccination has never been successfully developed for a so-called coronavirus. They have all failed at the animal testing stage when they caused hypersensitivity to what they were claiming to protect against and made the impact of a disease far worse. Cult- owned vaccine corporations got around that problem this time by bypassing animal trials, going straight to humans and making the length of the ‘trials’ before the public rollout as short as they could get away with. Normally it takes ﬁve to ten years or more to develop vaccines that still cause demonstrable harm to many people and that’s without including the long-term eﬀects that are never oﬃcially connected to the vaccination. ‘Covid’ non-vaccines have been oﬃcially produced and approved in a ma er of months from a standing start and part of the reason is that (a) they were developed before the ‘Covid’ hoax began and (b) they are based on computer programs and not natural sources. Oﬃcial non-trials were so short that government agencies gave emergency, not full, approval. ‘Trials’ were not even completed and full approval cannot be secured until they are. Public ‘Covid vaccination’ is actually a continuation of the trial. Drug company ‘trials’ are not scheduled to end until 2023 by which time a lot of people are going to be dead. Data on which government agencies gave this emergency approval was supplied by the Big Pharma corporations themselves in the form of Pﬁzer/BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and others, and this is the case with all vaccines. By its very nature emergency approval means drug companies do not have to prove that the ‘vaccine’ is ‘safe and eﬀective’. How could they with trials way short of complete? Government regulators only have to believe that they could be safe and eﬀective. It is criminal manipulation to get products in circulation with no testing worth the name. Agencies giving that approval are infested with Big Pharma-connected place- people and they act in the interests of Big Pharma (the Cult) and not the public about whom they do not give a damn.

More human lab rats ‘Covid vaccines’ produced in record time by Pﬁzer/BioNTech and Moderna employ a technique never approved before for use on humans. They are known as mRNA ‘vaccines’ and inject a synthetic version of ‘viral’ mRNA or ‘messenger RNA’. The key is in the term ‘messenger’. The body works, or doesn’t, on the basis of information messaging. Communications are constantly passing between and within the genetic system and the brain. Change those messages and you change the state of the body and even its very nature and you can change psychology and behaviour by the way the brain processes information. I think you are going to see signiﬁcant changes in personality and perception of many people who have had the ‘Covid vaccine’ synthetic potions. Insider Aldous Huxley predicted the following in 1961 and mRNA ‘vaccines’ can be included in the term ‘pharmacological methods’:

There will be, in the next generation or so, a pharmacological method of making people love their servitude, and producing dictatorship without tears, so to speak, producing a kind of painless concentration camp for entire societies, so that people will in fact have their own liberties taken away from them, but rather enjoy it, because they will be distracted from any desire to rebel by propaganda or brainwashing, or brainwashing enhanced by pharmacological methods. And this seems to be the final revolution.


Apologists claim that mRNA synthetic ‘vaccines’ don’t change the DNA genetic blueprint because RNA does not aﬀect DNA only the other way round. This is so disingenuous. A process called ‘reverse transcription’ can convert RNA into DNA and be integrated into DNA in the cell nucleus. This was highlighted in December, 2020, by scientists at Harvard and Massachuse s Institute of Technology (MIT). Geneticists report that more than 40 percent of mammalian genomes results from reverse transcription. On the most basic level if messaging changes then that sequence must lead to changes in DNA which is receiving and transmi ing those communications. How can introducing synthetic material into cells not change the cells where DNA is located? The process is known as transfection which is deﬁned as ‘a technique to insert foreign nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) into a cell, typically with the intention of altering the properties of the cell’. Researchers at the Sloan Ke ering Institute in New York found that changes in messenger RNA can deactivate tumour-suppressing proteins and thereby promote cancer. This is what happens when you mess with messaging. ‘Covid vaccine’ maker Moderna was founded in 2010 by Canadian stem cell biologist Derrick J. Rossi a er his breakthrough discovery in the ﬁeld of transforming and reprogramming stem cells. These are neutral cells that can be programmed to become any cell including sperm cells. Moderna was therefore founded on the principle of genetic manipulation and has never produced any vaccine or drug before its genetically-manipulating synthetic ‘Covid’ shite. Look at the name – Mode-RNA or Modify-RNA. Another important point is that the US Supreme Court has ruled that genetically-modiﬁed DNA, or complementary DNA (cDNA) synthesized in the laboratory from messenger RNA, can be patented and owned. These psychopaths are doing this to the human body.  Cells replicate synthetic mRNA in the ‘Covid vaccines’ and in theory the body is tricked into making antigens which trigger antibodies to target the ‘virus spike proteins’ which as Dr Tom Cowan said have never been seen. Cut the crap and these ‘vaccines’ deliver self-replicating synthetic material to the cells with the eﬀect of changing human DNA. The more of them you have the more that process is compounded while synthetic material is all the time self- replicating. ‘Vaccine’-maker Moderna describes mRNA as ‘like so ware for the cell’ and so they are messing with the body’s so ware. What happens when you change the so ware in a computer? Everything changes. For this reason the Cult is preparing a production line of mRNA ‘Covid vaccines’ and a long list of excuses to use them as with all the ‘variants’ of a ‘virus’ never shown to exist. The plan is further to transfer the mRNA technique to other vaccines mostly given to children and young people. The cumulative consequences will be a transformation of human DNA through a constant infusion of synthetic genetic material which will kill many and change the rest. Now consider that governments that have given emergency approval for a vaccine that’s not a vaccine; never been approved for humans before; had no testing worth the name; and the makers have been given immunity from prosecution for any deaths or adverse eﬀects suﬀered by the public. The UK government awarded permanent legal indemnity to itself and its employees for harm done when a patient is being treated for ‘Covid-19’ or ‘suspected Covid-19’. That is quite a thought when these are possible ‘side-eﬀects’ from the ‘vaccine’ (they are not ‘side’, they are eﬀects) listed by the US Food and Drug Administration:

 Guillain-Barre syndrome; acute disseminated encephalomyelitis; transverse myelitis; encephalitis; myelitis; encephalomyelitis; meningoencephalitis; meningitis; encephalopathy; convulsions; seizures; stroke; narcolepsy; cataplexy; anaphylaxis; acute myocardial infarction (heart a ack); myocarditis; pericarditis; autoimmune disease; death; implications for pregnancy, and birth outcomes; other acute demyelinating diseases; non anaphylactic allergy reactions; thrombocytopenia ; disseminated intravascular coagulation; venous thromboembolism; arthritis; arthralgia; joint pain; Kawasaki disease; multisystem inﬂammatory syndrome in children; vaccine enhanced disease. The la er is the way the ‘vaccine’ has the potential to make diseases far worse than they would otherwise be. UK doctor and freedom campaigner Vernon Coleman described the conditions in this list as ‘all unpleasant, most of them very serious, and you can’t get more serious than death’. The thought that anyone at all has had the ‘vaccine’ in these circumstances is testament to the potential that humanity has for clueless, unquestioning, stupidity and for many that programmed stupidity has already been terminal.

An insider speaks Dr Michael Yeadon is a former Vice President, head of research and Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser at vaccine giant Pﬁzer. Yeadon worked on the inside of Big Pharma, but that did not stop him becoming a vocal critic of ‘Covid vaccines’ and their potential for multiple harms, including infertility in women. By the spring of 2021 he went much further and even used the no, no, term ‘conspiracy’. When you begin to see what is going on it is impossible not to do so. Yeadon spoke out in an interview with freedom campaigner James Delingpole and I mentioned earlier how he said that no one had samples of ‘the virus’. He explained that the mRNA technique originated in the anti- cancer ﬁeld and ways to turn on and oﬀ certain genes which could be advantageous if you wanted to stop cancer growing out of control. ‘That’s the origin of them. They are a very unusual application, really.’ Yeadon said that treating a cancer patient with an aggressive procedure might be understandable if the alternative was dying, but it was quite another thing to use the same technique as a public health measure. Most people involved wouldn’t catch the infectious agent you were vaccinating against and if they did they probably wouldn’t die:

If you are really using it as a public health measure you really want to as close as you can get to zero sides-effects … I find it odd that they chose techniques that were really cutting their teeth in the field of oncology and I’m worried that in using gene-based vaccines that have to be injected in the body and spread around the body, get taken up into some cells, and the regulators haven’t quite told us which cells they get taken up into … you are going to be generating a wide range of responses … with multiple steps each of which could go well or badly.  I doubt the Cult intends it to go well. Yeadon said that you can put any gene you like into the body through the ‘vaccine’. ‘You can certainly give them a gene that would do them some harm if you wanted.’ I was intrigued when he said that when used in the cancer ﬁeld the technique could turn genes on and oﬀ. I explore this process in The Answer and with diﬀerent genes having diﬀerent functions you could create mayhem – physically and psychologically – if you turned the wrong ones on and the right ones oﬀ. I read reports of an experiment by researchers at the University of Washington’s school of computer science and engineering in which they encoded DNA to infect computers. The body is itself a biological computer and if human DNA can inﬂict damage on a computer why can’t the computer via synthetic material mess with the human body? It can. The Washington research team said it was possible to insert malicious malware into ‘physical DNA strands’ and corrupt the computer system of a gene sequencing machine as it ‘reads gene le ers and stores them as binary digits 0 and 1’. They concluded that hackers could one day use blood or spit samples to access computer systems and obtain sensitive data from police forensics labs or infect genome ﬁles. It is at this level of digital interaction that synthetic ‘vaccines’ need to be seen to get the full picture and that will become very clear later on. Michael Yeadon said it made no sense to give the ‘vaccine’ to younger people who were in no danger from the ‘virus’. What was the beneﬁt? It was all downside with potential eﬀects:

The fact that my government in what I thought was a civilised, rational country, is raining [the ‘vaccine’] on people in their 30s and 40s, even my children in their 20s, they’re getting letters and phone calls, I know this is not right and any of you doctors who are vaccinating you know it’s not right, too. They are not at risk. They are not at risk from the disease, so you are now hoping that the side-effects are so rare that you get away with it. You don’t give new technology … that you don’t understand to 100 percent of the population.


Blood clot problems with the AstraZeneca ‘vaccine’ have been aﬀecting younger people to emphasise the downside risks with no beneﬁt. AstraZeneca’s version, produced with Oxford University, does not use mRNA, but still gets its toxic cocktail inside cells where it targets DNA. The Johnson & Johnson ‘vaccine’ which uses a similar technique has also produced blood clot eﬀects to such an extent that the United States paused its use at one point. They are all ‘gene therapy’ (cell modiﬁcation) procedures and not ‘vaccines’. The truth is that once the content of these injections enter cells we have no idea what the eﬀect will be. People can speculate and some can give very educated opinions and that’s good. In the end, though, only the makers know what their potions are designed to do and even they won’t know every last consequence. Michael Yeadon was scathing about doctors doing what they knew to be wrong. ‘Everyone’s mute’, he said. Doctors in the NHS must know this was not right, coming into work and injecting people. ‘I don’t know how they sleep at night. I know I couldn’t do it. I know that if I were in that position I’d have to quit.’ He said he knew enough about toxicology to know this was not a good risk-beneﬁt. Yeadon had spoken to seven or eight university professors and all except two would not speak out publicly. Their universities had a policy that no one said anything that countered the government and its medical advisors. They were afraid of losing their government grants. This is how intimidation has been used to silence the truth at every level of the system. I say silence, but these people could still speak out if they made that choice. Yeadon called them ‘moral cowards’ – ‘This is about your children and grandchildren’s lives and you have just buggered oﬀ and le it.’

‘Variant’ nonsense Some of his most powerful comments related to the alleged ‘variants’ being used to instil more fear, justify more lockdowns, and introduce more ‘vaccines’. He said government claims about ‘variants’ were nonsense. He had checked the alleged variant ‘codes’ and they were 99.7 percent identical to the ‘original’. This was the human identity diﬀerence equivalent to pu ing a baseball cap on and oﬀ or wearing it the other way round. A 0.3 percent diﬀerence would make it impossible for that ‘variant’ to escape immunity from the ‘original’. This made no sense of having new ‘vaccines’ for ‘variants’. He said there would have to be at least a 30 percent diﬀerence for that to be justiﬁed and even then he believed the immune system would still recognise what it was. Gates-funded ‘variant modeller’ and ‘vaccine’-pusher John Edmunds might care to comment. Yeadon said drug companies were making new versions of the ‘vaccine’ as a ‘top up’ for ‘variants’. Worse than that, he said, the ‘regulators’ around the world like the MHRA in the UK had got together and agreed that because ‘vaccines’ for ‘variants’ were so similar to the ﬁrst ‘vaccines’ they did not have to do safety studies. How transparently sinister that is. This is when Yeadon said: ‘There is a conspiracy here.’ There was no need for another vaccine for ‘variants’ and yet we were told that there was and the country had shut its borders because of them. ‘They are going into hundreds of millions of arms without passing ‘go’ or any regulator. Why did they do that? Why did they pick this method of making the vaccine?’ The reason had to be something bigger than that it seemed and ‘it’s not protection against the virus’. It’s was a far bigger project that meant politicians and advisers were willing to do things and not do things that knowingly resulted in avoidable deaths – ‘that’s already happened when you think about lockdown and deprivation of health care for a year.’ He spoke of people prepared to do something that results in the avoidable death of their fellow human beings and it not bother them. This is the penny-drop I have been working to get across for more than 30 years – the level of pure evil we are dealing with. Yeadon said his friends and associates could not believe there could be that much evil, but he reminded them of Stalin, Pol Pot and Hitler and of what Stalin had said: ‘One death is a tragedy. A million? A statistic.’ He could not think of a benign explanation for why you need top-up vaccines ‘which I’m sure you don’t’ and for the regulators ‘to just get out of the way and wave them through’. Why would the regulators do that when they were still wrestling with the dangers of the ‘parent’ vaccine? He was clearly shocked by what he had seen since the ‘Covid’ hoax began and now he was thinking the previously unthinkable: If you wanted to depopulate a significant proportion of the world and to do it in a way that doesn’t involve destruction of the environment with nuclear weapons, poisoning everyone with anthrax or something like that, and you wanted plausible deniability while you had a multi-year infectious disease crisis, I actually don’t think you could come up with a better plan of work than seems to be in front of me. I can’t say that’s what they are going to do, but I can’t think of a benign explanation why they are doing it.


He said he never thought that they would get rid of 99 percent of humans, but now he wondered. ‘If you wanted to that this would be a hell of a way to do it – it would be unstoppable folks.’ Yeadon had concluded that those who submi ed to the ‘vaccine’ would be allowed to have some kind of normal life (but for how long?) while screws were tightened to coerce and mandate the last few percent. ‘I think they’ll put the rest of them in a prison camp. I wish I was wrong, but I don’t think I am.’ Other points he made included: There were no coronavirus vaccines then suddenly they all come along at the same time; we have no idea of the long term aﬀect with trials so short; coercing or forcing people to have medical procedures is against the Nuremberg Code instigated when the Nazis did just that; people should at least delay having the ‘vaccine’; a quick Internet search conﬁrms that masks don’t reduce respiratory viral transmission and ‘the government knows that’; they have smashed civil society and they know that, too; two dozen peer-reviewed studies show no connection between lockdown and reducing deaths; he knew from personal friends the elite were still ﬂying around and going on holiday while the public were locked down; the elite were not having the ‘vaccines’. He was also asked if ‘vaccines’ could be made to target diﬀerence races. He said he didn’t know, but the document by the Project for the New American Century in September, 2000, said developing ‘advanced forms of biological warfare that can target specific genotypes may transform biological warfare from the realm of terror to a politically useful tool.’ Oh, they’re evil all right. Of that we can be absolutely sure.

Another cull of old people We have seen from the CDC deﬁnition that the mRNA ‘Covid vaccine’ is not a vaccine and nor are the others that claim to reduce ‘severity of symptoms’ in some people, but not protect from infection or transmission. What about all the lies about returning to ‘normal’ if people were ‘vaccinated’? If they are not claimed to stop infection and transmission of the alleged ‘virus’, how does anything change? This was all lies to manipulate people to take the jabs and we are seeing that now with masks and distancing still required for the ‘vaccinated’. How did they think that elderly people with fragile health and immune responses were going to be aﬀected by infusing their cells with synthetic material and other toxic substances? They knew that in the short and long term it would be devastating and fatal as the culling of the old that began with the ﬁrst lockdowns was continued with the ‘vaccine’. Death rates in care homes soared immediately residents began to be ‘vaccinated’ – infused with synthetic material. Brave and commi ed whistleblower nurses put their careers at risk by exposing this truth while the rest kept their heads down and their mouths shut to put their careers before those they are supposed to care for. A long-time American Certiﬁed Nursing Assistant who gave his name as James posted a video in which he described emotionally what happened in his care home when vaccination began. He said that during 2020 very few residents were sick with ‘Covid’ and no one died during the entire year; but shortly a er the Pﬁzer mRNA injections 14 people died within two weeks and many others were near death. ‘They’re dropping like ﬂies’, he said. Residents who walked on their own before the shot could no longer and they had lost their ability to conduct an intelligent conversation. The home’s management said the sudden deaths were caused by a ‘super-spreader’ of ‘Covid-19’. Then how come, James asked, that residents who refused to take the injections were not sick? It was a case of inject the elderly with mRNA synthetic potions and blame their illness and death that followed on the ‘virus’. James described what was happening in care homes as ‘the greatest crime of genocide this country has ever seen’. Remember the NHS staﬀ nurse from earlier who used the same word ‘genocide’ for what was happening with the ‘vaccines’ and that it was an ‘act of human annihilation’. A UK care home whistleblower told a similar story to James about the eﬀect of the ‘vaccine’ in deaths and ‘outbreaks’ of illness dubbed ‘Covid’ a er ge ing the jab. She told how her care home management and staﬀ had zealously imposed government regulations and no one was allowed to even question the oﬃcial narrative let alone speak out against it. She said the NHS was even worse. Again we see the results of reframing. A worker at a local care home where I live said they had not had a single case of ‘Covid’ there for almost a year and when the residents were ‘vaccinated’ they had 19 positive cases in two weeks with eight dying.

It’s not the ‘vaccine’ – honest The obvious cause and eﬀect was being ignored by the media and most of the public. Australia’s health minister Greg Hunt (a former head of strategy at the World Economic Forum) was admi ed to hospital a er he had the ‘vaccine’. He was suﬀering according to reports from the skin infection ‘cellulitis’ and it must have been a severe case to have warranted days in hospital. Immediately the authorities said this was nothing to do with the ‘vaccine’ when an eﬀect of some vaccines is a ‘cellulitis-like reaction’. We had families of perfectly healthy old people who died a er the ‘vaccine’ saying that if only they had been given the ‘vaccine’ earlier they would still be alive. As a numbskull rating that is oﬀ the chart. A father of four ‘died of Covid’ at aged 48 when he was taken ill two days a er having the ‘vaccine’. The man, a health administrator, had been ‘shielding during the pandemic’ and had ‘not really le the house’ until he went for the ‘vaccine’. Having the ‘vaccine’ and then falling ill and dying does not seem to have qualiﬁed as a possible cause and eﬀect and ‘Covid-19’ went on his death certiﬁcate. His family said they had no idea how he ‘caught the virus’. A family member said: ‘Tragically, it could be that going for a vaccination ultimately led to him catching Covid …The sad truth is that they are never going to know where it came from.’ The family warned people to remember that the virus still existed and was ‘very real’. So was their stupidity. Nurses and doctors who had the ﬁrst round of the ‘vaccine’ were collapsing, dying and ending up in a hospital bed while they or their grieving relatives were saying they’d still have the ‘vaccine’ again despite what happened. I kid you not. You mean if your husband returned from the dead he’d have the same ‘vaccine’ again that killed him??  Doctors at the VCU Medical Center in Richmond, Virginia, said the Johnson & Johnson ‘vaccine’ was to blame for a man’s skin peeling oﬀ. Patient Richard Terrell said: ‘It all just happened so fast. My skin peeled oﬀ. It’s still coming oﬀ on my hands now.’ He said it was stinging, burning and itching and when he bent his arms and legs it was very painful with ‘the skin swollen and rubbing against itself’. Pﬁzer/BioNTech and Moderna vaccines use mRNA to change the cell while the Johnson & Johnson version uses DNA in a process similar to AstraZeneca’s technique. Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca have both had their ‘vaccines’ paused by many countries a er causing serious blood problems. Terrell’s doctor Fnu Nutan said he could have died if he hadn’t got medical a ention. It sounds terrible so what did Nutan and Terrell say about the ‘vaccine’ now? Oh, they still recommend that people have it. A nurse in a hospital bed 40 minutes a er the vaccination and unable to swallow due to throat swelling was told by a doctor that he lost mobility in his arm for 36 hours following the vaccination. What did he say to the ailing nurse? ‘Good for you for ge ing the vaccination.’ We are dealing with a serious form of cognitive dissonance madness in both public and medical staﬀ. There is a remarkable correlation between those having the ‘vaccine’ and trumpeting the fact and suﬀering bad happenings shortly a erwards. Witold Rogiewicz, a Polish doctor, made a video of his ‘vaccination’ and ridiculed those who were questioning its safety and the intentions of Bill Gates: ‘Vaccinate yourself to protect yourself, your loved ones, friends and also patients. And to mention quickly I have info for anti-vaxxers and anti-Coviders if you want to contact Bill Gates you can do this through me.’ He further ridiculed the dangers of 5G. Days later he was dead, but naturally the vaccination wasn’t mentioned in the verdict of ‘heart a ack’.

Lies, lies and more lies So many members of the human race have slipped into extreme states of insanity and unfortunately they include reframed doctors and nursing staﬀ. Having a ‘vaccine’ and dying within minutes or hours is not considered a valid connection while death from any cause within 28 days or longer of a positive test with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ means ‘Covid-19’ goes on the death certiﬁcate. How could that ‘vaccine’-death connection not have been made except by calculated deceit? US ﬁgures in the initial rollout period to February 12th, 2020, revealed that a third of the deaths reported to the CDC a er ‘Covid vaccines’ happened within 48 hours. Five men in the UK suﬀered an ‘extremely rare’ blood clot problem a er having the AstraZeneca ‘vaccine’, but no causal link was established said the Gates-funded Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) which had given the ‘vaccine’ emergency approval to be used. Former Pﬁzer executive Dr Michael Yeadon explained in his interview how the procedures could cause blood coagulation and clots. People who should have been at no risk were dying from blood clots in the brain and he said he had heard from medical doctor friends that people were suﬀering from skin bleeding and massive headaches. The AstraZeneca ‘shot’ was stopped by some 20 countries over the blood clo ing issue and still the corrupt MHRA, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the World Health Organization said that it should continue to be given even though the EMA admi ed that it ‘still cannot rule out deﬁnitively’ a link between blood clo ing and the ‘vaccine’. Later Marco Cavaleri, head of EMA vaccine strategy, said there was indeed a clear link between the ‘vaccine’ and thrombosis, but they didn’t know why. So much for the trials showing the ‘vaccine’ is safe. Blood clots were aﬀecting younger people who would be under virtually no danger from ‘Covid’ even if it existed which makes it all the more stupid and sinister.  The British government responded to public alarm by wheeling out June Raine, the terrifyingly weak infant school headmistress sound-alike who heads the UK MHRA drug ‘regulator’. The idea that she would stand up to Big Pharma and government pressure is laughable and she told us that all was well in the same way that she did when allowing untested, never-used-on-humans-before, genetically-manipulating ‘vaccines’ to be exposed to the public in the ﬁrst place. Mass lying is the new normal of the ‘Covid’ era. The MHRA later said 30 cases of rare blood clots had by then been connected with the AstraZeneca ‘vaccine’ (that means a lot more in reality) while stressing that the beneﬁts of the jab in preventing ‘Covid-19’ outweighed any risks. A more ridiculous and disingenuous statement with callous disregard for human health it is hard to contemplate. Immediately a er the mendacious ‘all-clears’ two hospital workers in Denmark experienced blood clots and cerebral haemorrhaging following the AstraZeneca jab and one died. Top Norwegian health oﬃcial Pål Andre Holme said the ‘vaccine’ was the only common factor: ‘There is nothing in the patient history of these individuals that can give such a powerful immune response … I am conﬁdent that the antibodies that we have found are the cause, and I see no other explanation than it being the vaccine which triggers it.’ Strokes, a clot or bleed in the brain, were clearly associated with the ‘vaccine’ from word of mouth and whistleblower reports. Similar consequences followed with all these ‘vaccines’ that we were told were so safe and as the numbers grew by the day it was clear we were witnessing human carnage.

Learning the hard way A woman interviewed by UKColumn told how her husband suﬀered dramatic health eﬀects a er the vaccine when he’d been in good health all his life. He went from being a li le unwell to losing all feeling in his legs and experiencing ‘excruciating pain’. Misdiagnosis followed twice at Accident and Emergency (an ‘allergy’ and ‘sciatica’) before he was admi ed to a neurology ward where doctors said his serious condition had been caused by the ‘vaccine’. Another seven ‘vaccinated’ people were apparently being treated on the same ward for similar symptoms. The woman said he had the ‘vaccine’ because they believed media claims that it was safe. ‘I didn’t think the government would give out a vaccine that does this to somebody; I believed they would be bringing out a vaccination that would be safe.’ What a tragic way to learn that lesson. Another woman posted that her husband was transporting stroke patients to hospital on almost every shi and when he asked them if they had been ‘vaccinated’ for ‘Covid’ they all replied ‘yes’. One had a ‘massive brain bleed’ the day a er his second dose. She said her husband reported the ‘just been vaccinated’ information every time to doctors in A and E only for them to ignore it, make no notes and appear annoyed that it was even mentioned. This particular report cannot be veriﬁed, but it expresses a common theme that conﬁrms the monumental underreporting of ‘vaccine’ consequences. Interestingly as the ‘vaccines’ and their brain blood clot/stroke consequences began to emerge the UK National Health Service began a publicity campaign telling the public what to do in the event of a stroke. A Sco ish NHS staﬀ nurse who quit in disgust in March, 2021, said:

I have seen traumatic injuries from the vaccine, they’re not getting reported to the yellow card [adverse reaction] scheme, they’re treating the symptoms, not asking why, why it’s happening. It’s just treating the symptoms and when you speak about it you’re dismissed like you’re crazy, I’m not crazy, I’m not crazy because every other colleague I’ve spoken to is terrified to speak out, they’ve had enough.


Videos appeared on the Internet of people uncontrollably shaking a er the ‘vaccine’ with no control over muscles, limbs and even their face. A Sco ish mother broke out in a severe rash all over her body almost immediately a er she was given the AstraZeneca ‘vaccine’. The pictures were horriﬁc. Leigh King, a 41-year-old hairdresser from Lanarkshire said: ‘Never in my life was I prepared for what I was about to experience … My skin was so sore and constantly hot … I have never felt pain like this …’ But don’t you worry, the ‘vaccine’ is perfectly safe. Then there has been the eﬀect on medical staﬀ who have been pressured to have the ‘vaccine’ by psychopathic ‘health’ authorities and government. A London hospital consultant who gave the name K. Polyakova wrote this to the British Medical Journal or BMJ:

I am currently struggling with … the failure to report the reality of the morbidity caused by our current vaccination program within the health service and staff population. The levels of sickness after vaccination is unprecedented and staff are getting very sick and some with neurological symptoms which is having a huge impact on the health service function. Even the young and healthy are off for days, some for weeks, and some requiring medical treatment. Whole teams are being taken out as they went to get vaccinated together.

Mandatory vaccination in this instance is stupid, unethical and irresponsible when it comes to protecting our staff and public health. We are in the voluntary phase of vaccination, and encouraging staff to take an unlicensed product that is impacting on their immediate health … it is clearly stated that these vaccine products do not offer immunity or stop transmission. In which case why are we doing it?


Not to protect health that’s for sure. Medical workers are lauded by governments for agenda reasons when they couldn’t give a toss about them any more than they can for the population in general. Schools across America faced the same situation as they closed due to the high number of teachers and other staﬀ with bad reactions to the Pﬁzer/BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson ‘Covid vaccines’ all of which were linked to death and serious adverse eﬀects. The BMJ took down the consultant’s comments pre y quickly on the grounds that they were being used to spread ‘disinformation’. They were exposing the truth about the ‘vaccine’ was the real reason. The cover-up is breathtaking.

Hiding the evidence The scale of the ‘vaccine’ death cover-up worldwide can be conﬁrmed by comparing oﬃcial ﬁgures with the personal experience of the public. I heard of many people in my community who died immediately or soon a er the vaccine that would never appear in the media or even likely on the oﬃcial totals of ‘vaccine’ fatalities and adverse reactions when only about ten percent are estimated to be reported and I have seen some estimates as low as one percent in a Harvard study. In the UK alone by April 29th, 2021, some 757,654 adverse reactions had been oﬃcially reported from the Pﬁzer/BioNTech, Oxford/AstraZeneca and Moderna ‘vaccines’ with more than a thousand deaths linked to jabs and that means an estimated ten times this number in reality from a ten percent reporting rate percentage. That’s seven million adverse reactions and 10,000 potential deaths and a one percent reporting rate would be ten times those ﬁgures. In 1976 the US government pulled the swine ﬂu vaccine a er 53 deaths. The UK data included a combined 10,000 eye disorders from the ‘Covid vaccines’ with more than 750 suﬀering visual impairment or blindness and again multiply by the estimated reporting percentages. As ‘Covid cases’ oﬃcially fell hospitals virtually empty during the ‘Covid crisis’ began to ﬁll up with a range of other problems in the wake of the ‘vaccine’ rollout. The numbers across America have also been catastrophic. Deaths linked to all types of vaccine increased by 6,000 percent in the ﬁrst quarter of 2021 compared with 2020. A 39-year-old woman from Ogden, Utah, died four days a er receiving a second dose of Moderna’s ‘Covid vaccine’ when her liver, heart and kidneys all failed despite the fact that she had no known medical issues or conditions. Her family sought an autopsy, but Dr Erik Christensen, Utah’s chief medical examiner, said proving vaccine injury as a cause of death almost never happened. He could think of only one instance where an autopsy would name a vaccine as the oﬃcial cause of death and that would be anaphylaxis where someone received a vaccine and died almost instantaneously. ‘Short of that, it would be diﬃcult for us to deﬁnitively say this is the vaccine,’ Christensen said. If that is true this must be added to the estimated ten percent (or far less) reporting rate of vaccine deaths and serious reactions and the conclusion can only be that vaccine deaths and serious reactions – including these ‘Covid’ potions’ – are phenomenally understated in oﬃcial ﬁgures. The same story can be found everywhere. Endless accounts of deaths and serious reactions among the public, medical and care home staﬀ while oﬃcial ﬁgures did not even begin to reﬂect this.  Professional script-reader Dr David Williams, a ‘top public-health oﬃcial’ in Ontario, Canada, insulted our intelligence by claiming only four serious adverse reactions and no deaths from the more than 380,000 vaccine doses then given. This bore no resemblance to what people knew had happened in their owns circles and we had Dirk Huyer in charge of ge ing millions vaccinated in Ontario while at the same time he was Chief Coroner for the province investigating causes of death including possible death from the vaccine. An aide said he had stepped back from investigating deaths, but evidence indicated otherwise. Rosemary Frei, who secured a Master of Science degree in molecular biology at the Faculty of Medicine at Canada’s University of Calgary before turning to investigative journalism, was one who could see that oﬃcial ﬁgures for ‘vaccine’ deaths and reactions made no sense. She said that doctors seldom reported adverse events and when people got really sick or died a er ge ing a vaccination they would a ribute that to anything except the vaccines. It had been that way for years and anyone who wondered aloud whether the ‘Covid vaccines’ or other shots cause harm is immediately branded as ‘anti-vax’ and ‘anti-science’. This was ‘career-threatening’ for health professionals. Then there was the huge pressure to support the push to ‘vaccinate’ billions in the quickest time possible. Frei said:

So that’s where we’re at today. More than half a million vaccine doses have been given to people in Ontario alone. The rush is on to vaccinate all 15 million of us in the province by September. And the mainstream media are screaming for this to be sped up even more. That all adds up to only a very slim likelihood that we’re going to be told the truth by officials about how many people are getting sick or dying from the vaccines.


What is true of Ontario is true of everywhere.

They KNEW – and still did it The authorities knew what was going to happen with multiple deaths and adverse reactions. The UK government’s Gates-funded and Big Pharma-dominated Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) hired a company to employ AI in compiling the projected reactions to the ‘vaccine’ that would otherwise be uncountable. The request for applications said: ‘The MHRA urgently seeks an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) so ware tool to process the expected high volume of Covid-19 vaccine Adverse Drug Reaction …’ This was from the agency, headed by the disingenuous June Raine, that gave the ‘vaccines’ emergency approval and the company was hired before the ﬁrst shot was given. ‘We are going to kill and maim you – is that okay?’ ‘Oh, yes, perfectly ﬁne – I’m very grateful, thank you, doctor.’ The range of ‘Covid vaccine’ adverse reactions goes on for page a er page in the MHRA criminally underreported ‘Yellow Card’ system and includes aﬀects to eyes, ears, skin, digestion, blood and so on. Raine’s MHRA amazingly claimed that the ‘overall safety experience … is so far as expected from the clinical trials’. The death, serious adverse eﬀects, deafness and blindness were expected? When did they ever mention that? If these human tragedies were expected then those that gave approval for the use of these ‘vaccines’ must be guilty of crimes against humanity including murder – a deﬁnition of which is ‘killing a person with malice aforethought or with recklessness manifesting extreme indiﬀerence to the value of human life.’ People involved at the MHRA, the CDC in America and their equivalent around the world must go before Nuremberg trials to answer for their callous inhumanity. We are only talking here about the immediate eﬀects of the ‘vaccine’. The longer-term impact of the DNA synthetic manipulation is the main reason they are so hysterically desperate to inoculate the entire global population in the shortest possible time.  Africa and the developing world are a major focus for the ‘vaccine’ depopulation agenda and a mass vaccination sales-pitch is underway thanks to caring people like the Rockefellers and other Cult assets. The Rockefeller Foundation, which pre-empted the ‘Covid pandemic’ in a document published in 2010 that ‘predicted’ what happened a decade later, announced an initial $34.95 million grant in February, 2021, ‘to ensure more equitable access to Covid-19 testing and vaccines’ among other things in Africa in collaboration with ‘24 organizations, businesses, and government agencies’. The pan-Africa initiative would focus on 10 countries: Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia’. Rajiv Shah, President of the Rockefeller Foundation and former administrator of CIA-controlled USAID, said that if Africa was not mass-vaccinated (to change the DNA of its people) it was a ‘threat to all of humanity’ and not fair on Africans. When someone from the Rockefeller Foundation says they want to do something to help poor and deprived people and countries it is time for a belly-laugh. They are doing this out of the goodness of their ‘heart’ because ‘vaccinating’ the entire global population is what the ‘Covid’ hoax set out to achieve. Oﬃcial ‘decolonisation’ of Africa by the Cult was merely a prelude to ﬁnancial colonisation on the road to a return to physical colonisation. The ‘vaccine’ is vital to that and the sudden and convenient death of the ‘Covid’ sceptic president of Tanzania can be seen in its true light. A lot of people in Africa are aware that this is another form of colonisation and exploitation and they need to stand their ground.

The ‘vaccine is working’ scam A potential problem for the Cult was that the ‘vaccine’ is meant to change human DNA and body messaging and not to protect anyone from a ‘virus’ never shown to exist. The vaccine couldn’t work because it was not designed to work and how could they make it appear to be working so that more people would have it? This was overcome by lowering the ampliﬁcation rate of the PCR test to produce fewer ‘cases’ and therefore fewer ‘deaths’. Some of us had been pointing out since March, 2020, that the ampliﬁcation rate of the test not testing for the ‘virus’ had been made artiﬁcially high to generate positive tests which they could call ‘cases’ to justify lockdowns. The World Health Organization recommended an absurdly high 45 ampliﬁcation cycles to ensure the high positives required by the Cult and then remained silent on the issue until January 20th, 2021 – Biden’s Inauguration Day. This was when the ‘vaccinations’ were seriously underway and on that day the WHO recommended a er discussions with America’s CDC that laboratories lowered their testing amplification. Dr David Samadi, a certiﬁed urologist and health writer, said the WHO was encouraging all labs to reduce their cycle count for PCR tests. He said the current cycle was much too high and was ‘resulting in any particle being declared a positive case’. Even one mainstream news report I saw said this meant the number of ‘Covid’ infections may have been ‘dramatically inﬂated’. Oh, just a li le bit. The CDC in America issued new guidance to laboratories in April, 2021, to use 28 cycles but only for ‘vaccinated’ people. The timing of the CDC/WHO interventions were cynically designed to make it appear the ‘vaccines’ were responsible for falling cases and deaths when the real reason can be seen in the following examples. New York’s state lab, the Wadsworth Center, identiﬁed 872 positive tests in July, 2020, based on a threshold of 40 cycles. When the ﬁgure was lowered to 35 cycles 43 percent of the 872 were no longer ‘positives’. At 30 cycles the ﬁgure was 63 percent. A Massachuse s lab found that between 85 to 90 percent of people who tested positive in July with a cycle threshold of 40 would be negative at 30 cycles, Ashish Jha, MD, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, said: ‘I’m really shocked that it could be that high … Boy, does it really change the way we need to be thinking about testing.’ I’m shocked that I could see the obvious in the spring of 2020, with no medical background, and most medical professionals still haven’t worked it out. No, that’s not shocking – it’s terrifying.  Three weeks a er the WHO directive to lower PCR cycles the London Daily Mail ran this headline: ‘Why ARE Covid cases plummeting? New infections have fallen 45% in the US and 30% globally in the past 3 weeks but experts say vaccine is NOT the main driver because only 8% of Americans and 13% of people worldwide have received their ﬁrst dose.’ They acknowledged that the drop could not be a ributed to the ‘vaccine’, but soon this morphed throughout the media into the ‘vaccine’ has caused cases and deaths to fall when it was the PCR threshold. In December, 2020, there was chaos at English Channel ports with truck drivers needing negative ‘Covid’ tests before they could board a ferry home for Christmas. The government wanted to remove the backlog as fast as possible and they brought in troops to do the ‘testing’. Out of 1,600 drivers just 36 tested positive and the rest were given the all clear to cross the Channel. I guess the authorities thought that 36 was the least they could get away with without the unquestioning catching on. The ampliﬁcation trick which most people believed in the absence of information in the mainstream applied more pressure on those refusing the ‘vaccine’ to succumb when it ‘obviously worked’. The truth was the exact opposite with deaths in care homes soaring with the ‘vaccine’ and in Israel the term used was ‘skyrocket’. A re- analysis of published data from the Israeli Health Ministry led by Dr Hervé Seligmann at the Medicine Emerging Infectious and Tropical Diseases at Aix-Marseille University found that Pﬁzer’s ‘Covid vaccine’ killed ‘about 40 times more [elderly] people than the disease itself would have killed’ during a ﬁve-week vaccination period and 260 times more younger people than would have died from the ‘virus’ even according to the manipulated ‘virus’ ﬁgures. Dr Seligmann and his co-study author, Haim Yativ, declared a er reviewing the Israeli ‘vaccine’ death data: ‘This is a new Holocaust.’  Then, in mid-April, 2021, a er vast numbers of people worldwide had been ‘vaccinated’, the story changed with clear coordination. The UK government began to prepare the ground for more future lockdowns when Nuremberg-destined Boris Johnson told yet another whopper. He said that cases had fallen because of lockdowns not ‘vaccines’. Lockdowns are irrelevant when there is no ‘virus’ and the test and fraudulent death certiﬁcates are deciding the number of ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’. Study a er study has shown that lockdowns don’t work and instead kill and psychologically destroy people. Meanwhile in the United States Anthony Fauci and Rochelle Walensky, the ultra-Zionist head of the CDC, peddled the same line. More lockdown was the answer and not the ‘vaccine’, a line repeated on cue by the moron that is Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Why all the hysteria to get everyone ‘vaccinated’ if lockdowns and not ‘vaccines’ made the diﬀerence? None of it makes sense on the face of it. Oh, but it does. The Cult wants lockdowns and the ‘vaccine’ and if the ‘vaccine’ is allowed to be seen as the total answer lockdowns would no longer be justiﬁed when there are still livelihoods to destroy. ‘Variants’ and renewed upward manipulation of PCR ampliﬁcation are planned to instigate never-ending lockdown and more ‘vaccines’.

You must have it – we’re desperate Israel, where the Jewish and Arab population are ruled by the Sabbatian Cult, was the front-runner in imposing the DNA- manipulating ‘vaccine’ on its people to such an extent that Jewish refusers began to liken what was happening to the early years of Nazi Germany. This would seem to be a fantastic claim. Why would a government of Jewish people be acting like the Nazis did? If you realise that the Sabbatian Cult was behind the Nazis and that Sabbatians hate Jews the pieces start to ﬁt and the question of why a ‘Jewish’ government would treat Jews with such callous disregard for their lives and freedom ﬁnds an answer. Those controlling the government of Israel aren’t Jewish – they’re Sabbatian. Israeli lawyer Tamir Turgal was one who made the Nazi comparison in comments to German lawyer Reiner Fuellmich who is leading a class action lawsuit against the psychopaths for crimes against humanity. Turgal described how the Israeli government was vaccinating children and pregnant women on the basis that there was no evidence that this was dangerous when they had no evidence that it wasn’t dangerous either. They just had no evidence. This was medical experimentation and Turgal said this breached the Nuremberg Code about medical experimentation and procedures requiring informed consent and choice. Think about that. A Nuremberg Code developed because of Nazi experimentation on Jews and others in concentration camps by people like the evil-beyond-belief Josef Mengele is being breached by the Israeli government; but when you know that it’s a Sabbatian government along with its intelligence and military agencies like Mossad, Shin Bet and the Israeli Defense Forces, and that Sabbatians were the force behind the Nazis, the kaleidoscope comes into focus. What have we come to when Israeli Jews are suing their government for violating the Nuremberg Code by essentially making Israelis subject to a medical experiment using the controversial ‘vaccines’? It’s a shocker that this has to be done in the light of what happened in Nazi Germany. The Anshe Ha-Emet, or ‘People of the Truth’, made up of Israeli doctors, lawyers, campaigners and public, have launched a lawsuit with the International Criminal Court. It says:

When the heads of the Ministry of Health as well as the prime minister presented the vaccine in Israel and began the vaccination of Israeli residents, the vaccinated were not advised, that, in practice, they are taking part in a medical experiment and that their consent is required for this under the Nuremberg Code.


 The irony is unbelievable, but easily explained in one word: Sabbatians. The foundation of Israeli ‘Covid’ apartheid is the ‘green pass’ or ‘green passport’ which allows Jews and Arabs who have had the DNA-manipulating ‘vaccine’ to go about their lives – to work, ﬂy, travel in general, go to shopping malls, bars, restaurants, hotels, concerts, gyms, swimming pools, theatres and sports venues, while non-’vaccinated’ are banned from all those places and activities. Israelis have likened the ‘green pass’ to the yellow stars that Jews in Nazi Germany were forced to wear – the same as the yellow stickers that a branch of UK supermarket chain Morrisons told exempt mask-wears they had to display when shopping. How very sensitive. The Israeli system is blatant South African-style apartheid on the basis of compliance or non-compliance to fascism rather than colour of the skin. How appropriate that the Sabbatian Israeli government was so close to the pre-Mandela apartheid regime in Pretoria. The Sabbatian-instigated ‘vaccine passport’ in Israel is planned for everywhere. Sabbatians struck a deal with Pﬁzer that allowed them to lead the way in the percentage of a national population infused with synthetic material and the result was catastrophic. Israeli freedom activist Shai Dannon told me how chairs were appearing on beaches that said ‘vaccinated only’. Health Minister Yuli Edelstein said that anyone unwilling or unable to get the jabs that ‘confer immunity’ will be ‘le behind’. The man’s a liar. Not even the makers claim the ‘vaccines’ confer immunity. When you see those ﬁgures of ‘vaccine’ deaths these psychopaths were saying that you must take the chance the ‘vaccine’ will kill you or maim you while knowing it will change your DNA or lockdown for you will be permanent. That’s fascism. The Israeli parliament passed a law to allow personal information of the non-vaccinated to be shared with local and national authorities for three months. This was claimed by its supporters to be a way to ‘encourage’ people to be vaccinated. Hadas Ziv from Physicians for Human Rights described this as a ‘draconian law which crushed medical ethics and the patient rights’. But that’s the idea, the Sabbatians would reply.

Your papers, please Sabbatian Israel was leading what has been planned all along to be a global ‘vaccine pass’ called a ‘green passport’ without which you would remain in permanent lockdown restriction and unable to do anything. This is how badly – desperately – the Cult is to get everyone ‘vaccinated’. The term and colour ‘green’ was not by chance and related to the psychology of fusing the perception of the green climate hoax with the ‘Covid’ hoax and how the ‘solution’ to both is the same Great Reset. Lying politicians, health oﬃcials and psychologists denied there were any plans for mandatory vaccinations or restrictions based on vaccinations, but they knew that was exactly what was meant to happen with governments of all countries reaching agreements to enforce a global system. ‘Free’ Denmark and ‘free’ Sweden unveiled digital vaccine certiﬁcation. Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and Spain have all commi ed to a vaccine passport system and the rest including the whole of the EU would follow. The satanic UK government will certainly go this way despite mendacious denials and at the time of writing it is trying to manipulate the public into having the ‘vaccine’ so they could go abroad on a summer holiday. How would that work without something to prove you had the synthetic toxicity injected into you? Documents show that the EU’s European Commission was moving towards ‘vaccine certiﬁcates’ in 2018 and 2019 before the ‘Covid’ hoax began. They knew what was coming. Abracadabra – Ursula von der Leyen, the German President of the Commission, announced in March, 2021, an EU ‘Digital Green Certiﬁcate’ – green again – to track the public’s ‘Covid status’. The passport sting is worldwide and the Far East followed the same pa ern with South Korea ruling that only those with ‘vaccination’ passports – again the green pass – would be able to ‘return to their daily lives’.  Bill Gates has been preparing for this ‘passport’ with other Cult operatives for years and beyond the paper version is a Gates-funded ‘digital ta oo’ to identify who has been vaccinated and who hasn’t. The ‘ta oo’ is reported to include a substance which is externally readable to conﬁrm who has been vaccinated. This is a bio-luminous light-generating enzyme (think ﬁreﬂies) called … Luciferase. Yes, named a er the Cult ‘god’ Lucifer the ‘light bringer’ of whom more to come. Gates said he funded the readable ta oo to ensure children in the developing world were vaccinated and no one was missed out. He cares so much about poor kids as we know. This was just the cover story to develop a vaccine tagging system for everyone on the planet. Gates has been funding the ID2020 ‘alliance’ to do just that in league with other lovely people at Microso , GAVI, the Rockefeller Foundation, Accenture and IDEO.org. He said in interviews in March, 2020, before any ‘vaccine’ publicly existed, that the world must have a globalised digital certiﬁcate to track the ‘virus’ and who had been vaccinated. Gates knew from the start that the mRNA vaccines were coming and when they would come and that the plan was to tag the ‘vaccinated’ to marginalise the intelligent and stop them doing anything including travel. Evil just doesn’t suﬃce. Gates was exposed for oﬀering a $10 million bribe to the Nigerian House of Representatives to invoke compulsory ‘Covid’ vaccination of all Nigerians. Sara Cunial, a member of the Italian Parliament, called Gates a ‘vaccine criminal’. She urged the Italian President to hand him over to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity and condemned his plans to ‘chip the human race’ through ID2020.  You know it’s a long-planned agenda when war criminal and Cult gofer Tony Blair is on the case. With the scale of arrogance only someone as dark as Blair can muster he said: ‘Vaccination in the end is going to be your route to liberty.’ Blair is a disgusting piece of work and he conﬁrms that again. The media has given a lot of coverage to a bloke called Charlie Mullins, founder of London’s biggest independent plumbing company, Pimlico Plumbers, who has said he won’t employ anyone who has not been vaccinated or have them go to any home where people are not vaccinated. He said that if he had his way no one would be allowed to walk the streets if they have not been vaccinated. Gates was cheering at the time while I was alerting the white coats. The plan is that people will qualify for ‘passports’ for having the ﬁrst two doses and then to keep it they will have to have all the follow ups and new ones for invented ‘variants’ until human genetics is transformed and many are dead who can’t adjust to the changes. Hollywood celebrities – the usual propaganda stunt – are promoting something called the WELL Health-Safety Rating to verify that a building or space has ‘taken the necessary steps to prioritize the health and safety of their staﬀ, visitors and other stakeholders’. They included Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lopez, Michael B. Jordan, Robert DeNiro, Venus Williams, Wolfgang Puck, Deepak Chopra and 17th Surgeon General Richard Carmona. Yawn. WELL Health-Safety has big connections with China. Parent company Delos is headed by former Goldman Sachs partner Paul Scialla. This is another example – and we will see so many others – of using the excuse of ‘health’ to dictate the lives and activities of the population. I guess one conﬁrmation of the ‘safety’ of buildings is that only ‘vaccinated’ people can go in, right?

Electronic concentration camps I wrote decades ago about the plans to restrict travel and here we are for those who refuse to bow to tyranny. This can be achieved in one go with air travel if the aviation industry makes a blanket decree. The ‘vaccine’ and guaranteed income are designed to be part of a global version of China’s social credit system which tracks behaviour 24/7 and awards or deletes ‘credits’ based on whether your behaviour is supported by the state or not. I mean your entire lifestyle – what you do, eat, say, everything. Once your credit score falls below a certain level consequences kick in. In China tens of millions have been denied travel by air and train because of this. All the locations and activities denied to refusers by the ‘vaccine’ passports will be included in one big mass ban on doing almost anything for those that don’t bow their head to government. It’s beyond fascist and a new term is required to describe its extremes – I guess fascist technocracy will have to do. The way the Chinese system of technological – technocratic – control is sweeping the West can be seen in the Los Angeles school system and is planned to be expanded worldwide. Every child is required to have a ‘Covid’- tracking app scanned daily before they can enter the classroom. The so-called Daily Pass tracking system is produced by Gates’ Microso which I’m sure will shock you rigid. The pass will be scanned using a barcode (one step from an inside-the-body barcode) and the information will include health checks, ‘Covid’ tests and vaccinations. Entry codes are for one speciﬁc building only and access will only be allowed if a student or teacher has a negative test with a test not testing for the ‘virus’, has no symptoms of anything alleged to be related to ‘Covid’ (symptoms from a range of other illness), and has a temperature under 100 degrees. No barcode, no entry, is planned to be the case for everywhere and not only schools.  Kids are being psychologically prepared to accept this as ‘normal’ their whole life which is why what they can impose in schools is so important to the Cult and its gofers. Long-time American freedom campaigner John Whitehead of the Rutherford Institute was not exaggerating when he said: ‘Databit by databit, we are building our own electronic concentration camps.’ Canada under its Cult gofer prime minister Justin Trudeau has taken a major step towards the real thing with people interned against their will if they test positive with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ when they arrive at a Canadian airport. They are jailed in internment hotels o en without food or water for long periods and with many doors failing to lock there have been sexual assaults. The interned are being charged sometimes $2,000 for the privilege of being abused in this way. Trudeau is fully on board with the Cult and says the ‘Covid pandemic’ has provided an opportunity for a global ‘reset’ to permanently change Western civilisation. His number two, Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland, is a trustee of the World Economic Forum and a Rhodes Scholar. The Trudeau family have long been servants of the Cult. See The Biggest Secret and Cathy O’Brien’s book Trance-Formation of America for the horriﬁc background to Trudeau’s father Pierre Trudeau another Canadian prime minister. Hide your fascism behind the façade of a heart-on-the-sleeve liberal. It’s a well- honed Cult technique.

What can the ‘vaccine’ really do? We have a ‘virus’ never shown to exist and ‘variants’ of the ‘virus’ that have also never been shown to exist except, like the ‘original’, as computer-generated ﬁctions. Even if you believe there’s a ‘virus’ the ‘case’ to ‘death’ rate is in the region of 0.23 to 0.15 percent and those ‘deaths’ are concentrated among the very old around the same average age that people die anyway. In response to this lack of threat (in truth none) psychopaths and idiots, knowingly and unknowingly answering to Gates and the Cult, are seeking to ‘vaccinate’ every man, woman and child on Planet Earth. Clearly the ‘vaccine’ is not about ‘Covid’ – none of this ever has been. So what is it all about really? Why the desperation to infuse genetically-manipulating synthetic material into everyone through mRNA fraudulent ‘vaccines’ with the intent of doing this over and over with the excuses of ‘variants’ and other ‘virus’ inventions? Dr Sherri Tenpenny, an osteopathic medical doctor in the United States, has made herself an expert on vaccines and their eﬀects as a vehement campaigner against their use. Tenpenny was board certiﬁed in emergency medicine, the director of a level two trauma centre for 12 years, and moved to Cleveland in 1996 to start an integrative medicine practice which has treated patients from all 50 states and some 17 other countries. Weaning people oﬀ pharmaceutical drugs is a speciality.  She became interested in the consequences of vaccines a er a ending a meeting at the National Vaccine Information Center in Washington DC in 2000 where she ‘sat through four days of listening to medical doctors and scientists and lawyers and parents of vaccine injured kids’ and asked: ‘What’s going on?’ She had never been vaccinated and never got ill while her father was given a list of vaccines to be in the military and was ‘sick his entire life’. The experience added to her questions and she began to examine vaccine documents from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). A er reading the ﬁrst one, the 1998 version of The General Recommendations of Vaccination, she thought: ‘This is it?’ The document was poorly wri en and bad science and Tenpenny began 20 years of research into vaccines that continues to this day. She began her research into ‘Covid vaccines’ in March, 2020, and she describes them as ‘deadly’. For many, as we have seen, they already have been. Tenpenny said that in the ﬁrst 30 days of the ‘vaccine’ rollout in the United States there had been more than 40,000 adverse events reported to the vaccine adverse event database. A document had been delivered to her the day before that was 172 pages long. ‘We have over 40,000 adverse events; we have over 3,100 cases of [potentially deadly] anaphylactic shock; we have over 5,000 neurological reactions.’ Eﬀects ranged from headaches to numbness, dizziness and vertigo, to losing feeling in hands or feet and paraesthesia which is when limbs ‘fall asleep’ and people have the sensation of insects crawling underneath their skin. All this happened in the ﬁrst 30 days and remember that only about ten percent (or far less) of adverse reactions and vaccine-related deaths are estimated to be oﬃcially reported. Tenpenny said:

So can you think of one single product in any industry, any industry, for as long as products have been made on the planet that within 30 days we have 40,000 people complaining of side effects that not only is still on the market but … we’ve got paid actors telling us how great they are for getting their vaccine. We’re offering people $500 if they will just get their vaccine and we’ve got nurses and doctors going; ‘I got the vaccine, I got the vaccine’.


Tenpenny said they were not going to be ‘happy dancing folks’ when they began to suﬀer Bell’s palsy (facial paralysis), neuropathies, cardiac arrhythmias and autoimmune reactions that kill through a blood disorder. ‘They’re not going to be so happy, happy then, but we’re never going to see pictures of those people’ she said. Tenpenny described the ‘vaccine’ as ‘a well-designed killing tool’.

No off-switch Bad as the initial consequences had been Tenpenny said it would be maybe 14 months before we began to see the ‘full ravage’ of what is going to happen to the ‘Covid vaccinated’ with full-out consequences taking anything between two years and 20 years to show. You can understand why when you consider that variations of the ‘Covid vaccine’ use mRNA (messenger RNA) to in theory activate the immune system to produce protective antibodies without using the actual ‘virus’. How can they when it’s a computer program and they’ve never isolated what they claim is the ‘real thing’? Instead they use synthetic mRNA. They are inoculating synthetic material into the body which through a technique known as the Trojan horse is absorbed into cells to change the nature of DNA. Human DNA is changed by an infusion of messenger RNA and with each new ‘vaccine’ of this type it is changed even more. Say so and you are banned by Cult Internet platforms. The contempt the contemptuous Mark Zuckerberg has for the truth and human health can be seen in an internal Facebook video leaked to the Project Veritas investigative team in which he said of the ‘Covid vaccines’: ‘… I share some caution on this because we just don’t know the long term side-eﬀects of basically modifying people’s DNA and RNA.’ At the same time this disgusting man’s Facebook was censoring and banning anyone saying exactly the same. He must go before a Nuremberg trial for crimes against humanity when he knows that he is censoring legitimate concerns and denying the right of informed consent on behalf of the Cult that owns him. People have been killed and damaged by the very ‘vaccination’ technique he cast doubt on himself when they may not have had the ‘vaccine’ with access to information that he denied them. The plan is to have at least annual ‘Covid vaccinations’, add others to deal with invented ‘variants’, and change all other vaccines into the mRNA system. Pﬁzer executives told shareholders at a virtual Barclays Global Healthcare Conference in March, 2021, that the public may need a third dose of ‘Covid vaccine’, plus regular yearly boosters and the company planned to hike prices to milk the proﬁts in a ‘signiﬁcant opportunity for our vaccine’. These are the professional liars, cheats and opportunists who are telling you their ‘vaccine’ is safe. Given this volume of mRNA planned to be infused into the human body and its ability to then replicate we will have a transformation of human genetics from biological to synthetic biological – exactly the long-time Cult plan for reasons we’ll see – and many will die. Sherri Tenpenny said of this replication:

It’s like having an on-button but no off-button and that whole mechanism … they actually give it a name and they call it the Trojan horse mechanism, because it allows that [synthetic] virus and that piece of that [synthetic] virus to get inside of your cells, start to replicate and even get inserted into other parts of your DNA as a Trojan-horse.


Ask the overwhelming majority of people who have the ‘vaccine’ what they know about the contents and what they do and they would reply: ‘The government says it will stop me ge ing the virus.’ Governments give that false impression on purpose to increase take- up. You can read Sherri Tenpenny’s detailed analysis of the health consequences in her blog at Vaxxter.com, but in summary these are some of them. She highlights the statement by Bill Gates about how human beings can become their own ‘vaccine manufacturing machine’. The man is insane. [‘Vaccine’-generated] ‘antibodies’ carry synthetic messenger RNA into the cells and the damage starts, Tenpenny contends, and she says that lungs can be adversely aﬀected through varying degrees of pus and bleeding which obviously aﬀects breathing and would be dubbed ‘Covid-19’. Even more sinister was the impact of ‘antibodies’ on macrophages, a white blood cell of the immune system. They consist of Type 1 and Type 2 which have very diﬀerent functions. She said Type 1 are ‘hyper- vigilant’ white blood cells which ‘gobble up’ bacteria etc. However, in doing so, this could cause inﬂammation and in extreme circumstances be fatal. She says these aﬀects are mitigated by Type 2 macrophages which kick in to calm down the system and stop it going rogue. They clear up dead tissue debris and reduce inﬂammation that the Type 1 ‘ﬁre crews’ have caused. Type 1 kills the infection and Type 2 heals the damage, she says. This is her punchline with regard to ‘Covid vaccinations’: She says that mRNA ‘antibodies’ block Type 2 macrophages by a aching to them and deactivating them. This meant that when the Type 1 response was triggered by infection there was nothing to stop that ge ing out of hand by calming everything down. There’s an on-switch, but no oﬀ- switch, she says. What follows can be ‘over and out, see you when I see you’.

Genetic suicide Tenpenny also highlights the potential for autoimmune disease – the body a acking itself – which has been associated with vaccines since they ﬁrst appeared. Infusing a synthetic foreign substance into cells could cause the immune system to react in a panic believing that the body is being overwhelmed by an invader (it is) and the consequences can again be fatal. There is an autoimmune response known as a ‘cytokine storm’ which I have likened to a homeowner panicked by an intruder and picking up a gun to shoot randomly in all directions before turning the ﬁre on himself. The immune system unleashes a storm of inﬂammatory response called cytokines to a threat and the body commits hara-kiri. The lesson is that you mess with the body’s immune response at your peril and these ‘vaccines’ seriously – fundamentally – mess with immune response. Tenpenny refers to a consequence called anaphylactic shock which is a severe and highly dangerous allergic reaction when the immune system ﬂoods the body with chemicals. She gives the example of having a bee sting which primes the immune system and makes it sensitive to those chemicals. When people are stung again maybe years later the immune response can be so powerful that it leads to anaphylactic shock. Tenpenny relates this ‘shock’ with regard to the ‘Covid vaccine’ to something called polyethylene glycol or PEG. Enormous numbers of people have become sensitive to this over decades of use in a whole range of products and processes including food, drink, skin creams and ‘medicine’. Studies have claimed that some 72 percent of people have antibodies triggered by PEG compared with two percent in the 1960s and allergic hypersensitive reactions to this become a gathering cause for concern. Tenpenny points out that the ‘mRNA vaccine’ is coated in a ‘bubble’ of polyethylene glycol which has the potential to cause anaphylactic shock through immune sensitivity. Many reports have appeared of people reacting this way a er having the ‘Covid vaccine’. What do we think is going to happen as humanity has more and more of these ‘vaccines’? Tenpenny said: ‘All these pictures we have seen with people with these rashes … these weepy rashes, big reactions on their arms and things like that – it’s an acute allergic reaction most likely to the polyethylene glycol that you’ve been previously primed and sensitised to.’  Those who have not studied the conspiracy and its perpetrators at length might think that making the population sensitive to PEG and then pu ing it in these ‘vaccines’ is just a coincidence. It is not. It is instead testament to how carefully and coldly-planned current events have been and the scale of the conspiracy we are dealing with. Tenpenny further explains that the ‘vaccine’ mRNA procedure can breach the blood-brain barrier which protects the brain from toxins and other crap that will cause malfunction. In this case they could make two proteins corrupt brain function to cause Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) , a progressive nervous system disease leading to loss of muscle control, and frontal lobe degeneration – Alzheimer’s and dementia. Immunologist J. Bart Classon published a paper connecting mRNA ‘vaccines’ to prion disease which can lead to Alzheimer’s and other forms of neurogenerative disease while others have pointed out the potential to aﬀect the placenta in ways that make women infertile. This will become highly signiﬁcant in the next chapter when I will discuss other aspects of this non-vaccine that relate to its nanotechnology and transmission from the injected to the uninjected.

Qualified in idiocy Tenpenny describes how research has conﬁrmed that these ‘vaccine’- generated antibodies can interact with a range of other tissues in the body and a ack many other organs including the lungs. ‘This means that if you have a hundred people standing in front of you that all got this shot they could have a hundred diﬀerent symptoms.’ Anyone really think that Cult gofers like the Queen, Tony Blair, Christopher Whi y, Anthony Fauci, and all the other psychopaths have really had this ‘vaccine’ in the pictures we’ve seen? Not a bloody chance. Why don’t doctors all tell us about all these dangers and consequences of the ‘Covid vaccine’? Why instead do they encourage and pressure patients to have the shot? Don’t let’s think for a moment that doctors and medical staﬀ can’t be stupid, lazy, and psychopathic and that’s without the ﬁnancial incentives to give the jab. Tenpenny again:

Some people are going to die from the vaccine directly but a large number of people are going to start to get horribly sick and get all kinds of autoimmune diseases 42 days to maybe a year out. What are they going to do, these stupid doctors who say; ‘Good for you for getting that vaccine.’ What are they going to say; ‘Oh, it must be a mutant, we need to give an extra dose of that vaccine.’

Because now the vaccine, instead of one dose or two doses we need three or four because the stupid physicians aren’t taking the time to learn anything about it. If I can learn this sitting in my living room reading a 19 page paper and several others so can they. There’s nothing special about me, I just take the time to do it.


Remember how Sara Kayat, the NHS and TV doctor, said that the ‘Covid vaccine’ would ‘100 percent prevent hospitalisation and death’. Doctors can be idiots like every other profession and they should not be worshipped as infallible. They are not and far from it. Behind many medical and scientiﬁc ‘experts’ lies an uninformed prat trying to hide themselves from you although in the ‘Covid’ era many have failed to do so as with UK narrative-repeating ‘TV doctor’ Hilary Jones. Pushing back against the minority of proper doctors and scientists speaking out against the ‘vaccine’ has been the entire ediﬁce of the Cult global state in the form of governments, medical systems, corporations, mainstream media, Silicon Valley, and an army of compliant doctors, medical staﬀ and scientists willing to say anything for money and to enhance their careers by promoting the party line. If you do that you are an ‘expert’ and if you won’t you are an ‘anti-vaxxer’ and ‘Covidiot’. The pressure to be ‘vaccinated’ is incessant. We have even had reports claiming that the ‘vaccine’ can help cure cancer and Alzheimer’s and make the lame walk. I am waiting for the announcement that it can bring you coﬀee in the morning and cook your tea. Just as the symptoms of ‘Covid’ seem to increase by the week so have the miracles of the ‘vaccine’. American supermarket giant Kroger Co. oﬀered nearly 500,000 employees in 35 states a $100 bonus for having the ‘vaccine’ while donut chain Krispy Kreme promised ‘vaccinated’ customers a free glazed donut every day for the rest of 2021. Have your DNA changed and you will get a doughnut although we might not have to give you them for long. Such oﬀers and incentives conﬁrm the desperation.  Perhaps the worse vaccine-stunt of them all was UK ‘Health’ Secretary Ma -the-prat Hancock on live TV a er watching a clip of someone being ‘vaccinated’ when the roll-out began. Hancock faked tears so badly it was embarrassing. Brain-of-Britain Piers Morgan, the lockdown-supporting, ‘vaccine’ supporting, ‘vaccine’ passport- supporting, TV host played along with Hancock – ‘You’re quite emotional about that’ he said in response to acting so atrocious it would have been called out at a school nativity which will presumably today include Mary and Jesus in masks, wise men keeping their camels six feet apart, and shepherds under tent arrest. System-serving Morgan tweeted this: ‘Love the idea of covid vaccine passports for everywhere: ﬂights, restaurants, clubs, football, gyms, shops etc. It’s time covid-denying, anti-vaxxer loonies had their bullsh*t bluﬀ called & bar themselves from going anywhere that responsible citizens go.’ If only I could aspire to his genius. To think that Morgan, who specialises in shouting over anyone he disagrees with, was lauded as a free speech hero when he lost his job a er storming oﬀ the set of his live show like a child throwing his dolly out of the pram. If he is a free speech hero we are in real trouble. I have no idea what ‘bullsh*t’ means, by the way, the * throws me completely. The Cult is desperate to infuse its synthetic DNA-changing concoction into everyone and has been using every lie, trick and intimidation to do so. The question of ‘Why?’ we shall now address. CHAPTER TEN

Human 2.0

 I believe that at the end of the century the use of words and general  educated opinion will have altered so much that one will be able to speak of machines thinking without expecting to be contradicted –  Alan Turing (1912-1954), the ‘Father of artificial intelligence‘



Ihave been exposing for decades the plan to transform the human  body from a biological to a synthetic-biological state. The new human that I will call Human 2.0 is planned to be connected to artiﬁcial intelligence and a global AI ‘Smart Grid’ that would operate as one global system in which AI would control everything from your fridge to your heating system to your car to your mind. Humans would no longer be ‘human’, but post-human and sub- human, with their thinking and emotional processes replaced by AI.  What I said sounded crazy and beyond science ﬁction and I could understand that. To any balanced, rational, mind it is crazy. Today, however, that world is becoming reality and it puts the ‘Covid vaccine’ into its true context. Ray Kurzweil is the ultra-Zionist ‘computer scientist, inventor and futurist’ and co-founder of the Singularity University. Singularity refers to the merging of humans with machines or ‘transhumanism’. Kurzweil has said humanity would be connected to the cyber ‘cloud’ in the period of the ever- recurring year of 2030:

Our thinking … will be a hybrid of biological and non-biological thinking … humans will be able to extend their limitations and ‘think in the cloud’ … We’re going to put gateways to the cloud in our brains ... We’re going to gradually merge and enhance ourselves ... In my view, that’s the nature of being human – we transcend our limitations. As the technology becomes vastly superior to what we are then the small proportion that is still human gets smaller and smaller and smaller until it’s just utterly negligible.


They are trying to sell this end-of-humanity-as-we-know-it as the next stage of ‘evolution’ when we become super-human and ‘like the gods’. They are lying to you. Shocked, eh? The population, and again especially the young, have been manipulated into addiction to technologies designed to enslave them for life. First they induced an addiction to smartphones (holdables); next they moved to technology on the body (wearables); and then began the invasion of the body (implantables). I warned way back about the plan for microchipped people and we are now entering that era. We should not be diverted into thinking that this refers only to chips we can see. Most important are the nanochips known as smart dust, neural dust and nanobots which are far too small to be seen by the human eye. Nanotechnology is everywhere, increasingly in food products, and released into the atmosphere by the geoengineering of the skies funded by Bill Gates to ‘shut out the Sun’ and ‘save the planet from global warming’. Gates has been funding a project to spray millions of tonnes of chalk (calcium carbonate) into the stratosphere over Sweden to ‘dim the Sun’ and cool the Earth. Scientists warned the move could be disastrous for weather systems in ways no one can predict and opposition led to the Swedish space agency announcing that the ‘experiment’ would not be happening as planned in the summer of 2021; but it shows where the Cult is going with dimming the impact of the Sun and there’s an associated plan to change the planet’s atmosphere. Who gives psychopath Gates the right to dictate to the entire human race and dismantle planetary systems? The world will not be safe while this man is at large. The global warming hoax has made the Sun, like the gas of life, something to fear when both are essential to good health and human survival (more inversion). The body transforms sunlight into vital vitamin D through a process involving … cholesterol. This is the cholesterol we are also told to fear. We are urged to take Big Pharma statin drugs to reduce cholesterol and it’s all systematic. Reducing cholesterol means reducing vitamin D uptake with all the multiple health problems that will cause. At least if you take statins long term it saves the government from having to pay you a pension. The delivery system to block sunlight is widely referred to as chemtrails although these have a much deeper agenda, too. They appear at ﬁrst to be contrails or condensation trails streaming from aircra into cold air at high altitudes. Contrails disperse very quickly while chemtrails do not and spread out across the sky before eventually their content falls to earth. Many times I have watched aircra cross- cross a clear blue sky releasing chemtrails until it looks like a cloudy day. Chemtrails contain many things harmful to humans and the natural world including toxic heavy metals, aluminium (see Alzheimer’s) and nanotechnology. Ray Kurzweil reveals the reason without actually saying so: ‘Nanobots will infuse all the ma er around us with information. Rocks, trees, everything will become these intelligent creatures.’ How do you deliver that? From the sky. Self-replicating nanobots would connect everything to the Smart Grid. The phenomenon of Morgellons disease began in the chemtrail era and the correlation has led to it being dubbed the ‘chemtrail disease’. Self-replicating ﬁbres appear in the body that can be pulled out through the skin. Morgellons ﬁbres continue to grow outside the body and have a form of artiﬁcial intelligence. I cover this at greater length in Phantom Self.

‘Vaccine’ operating system ‘Covid vaccines’ with their self-replicating synthetic material are also designed to make the connection between humanity and Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’. American doctor and dedicated campaigner for truth, Carrie Madej, an Internal Medicine Specialist in Georgia with more than 20 years medical experience, has highlighted the nanotechnology aspect of the fake ‘vaccines’. She explains how one of the components in at least the Moderna and Pﬁzer synthetic potions are ‘lipid nanoparticles’ which are ‘like li le tiny computer bits’ – a ‘sci-ﬁ substance’ known as nanobots and hydrogel which can be ‘triggered at any moment to deliver its payload’ and act as ‘biosensors’. The synthetic substance had ‘the ability to accumulate data from your body like your breathing, your respiration, thoughts and emotions, all kind of things’ and each syringe could carry a million nanobots:

This substance because it’s like little bits of computers in your body, crazy, but it’s true, it can do that, [and] obviously has the ability to act through Wi-Fi. It can receive and transmit energy, messages, frequencies or impulses. That issue has never been addressed by these companies. What does that do to the human?

Just imagine getting this substance in you and it can react to things all around you, the 5G, your smart device, your phones, what is happening with that? What if something is triggering it, too, like an impulse, a frequency? We have something completely foreign in the human body.


Madej said her research revealed that electromagnetic (EMF) frequencies emi ed by phones and other devices had increased dramatically in the same period of the ‘vaccine’ rollout and she was seeing more people with radiation problems as 5G and other electromagnetic technology was expanded and introduced to schools and hospitals. She said she was ‘ﬂoored with the EMF coming oﬀ’ the devices she checked. All this makes total sense and syncs with my own work of decades when you think that Moderna refers in documents to its mRNA ‘vaccine’ as an ‘operating system’:

Recognizing the broad potential of mRNA science, we set out to create an mRNA technology platform that functions very much like an operating system on a computer. It is designed so that it can plug and play interchangeably with different programs. In our case, the ‘program’ or ‘app’ is our mRNA drug – the unique mRNA sequence that codes for a protein …


… Our MRNA Medicines – ‘The ‘Software Of Life’: When we have a concept for a new mRNA medicine and begin research, fundamental components are already in place. Generally, the only thing that changes from one potential mRNA medicine to another is the coding region – the actual genetic code that instructs ribosomes to make protein. Utilizing these instruction sets gives our investigational mRNA medicines a software-like quality. We also have the ability to combine different mRNA sequences encoding for different proteins in a single mRNA investigational medicine. Who needs a real ‘virus’ when you can create a computer version to justify infusing your operating system into the entire human race on the road to making living, breathing people into cyborgs? What is missed with the ‘vaccines’ is the digital connection between synthetic material and the body that I highlighted earlier with the study that hacked a computer with human DNA. On one level the body is digital, based on mathematical codes, and I’ll have more about that in the next chapter. Those who ridiculously claim that mRNA ‘vaccines’ are not designed to change human genetics should explain the words of Dr Tal Zaks, chief medical oﬃcer at Moderna, in a 2017 TED talk. He said that over the last 30 years ‘we’ve been living this phenomenal digital scientiﬁc revolution, and I’m here today to tell you, that we are actually hacking the software of life, and that it’s changing the way we think about prevention and treatment of disease’:

In every cell there’s this thing called messenger RNA, or mRNA for short, that transmits the critical information from the DNA in our genes to the protein, which is really the stuff we’re all made out of. This is the critical information that determines what the cell will do. So we think about it as an operating system. So if you could change that, if you could introduce a line of code, or change a line of code, it turns out, that has profound implications for everything, from the flu to cancer.


Zaks should more accurately have said that this has profound implications for the human genetic code and the nature of DNA. Communications within the body go both ways and not only one. But, hey, no, the ‘Covid vaccine’ will not aﬀect your genetics. Cult fact-checkers say so even though the man who helped to develop the mRNA technique says that it does. Zaks said in 2017:

If you think about what it is we’re trying to do. We’ve taken information and our understanding of that information and how that information is transmitted in a cell, and we’ve taken our understanding of medicine and how to make drugs, and we’re fusing the two. We think of it as information therapy.


I have been writing for decades that the body is an information ﬁeld communicating with itself and the wider world. This is why radiation which is information can change the information ﬁeld of body and mind through phenomena like 5G and change their nature and function. ‘Information therapy’ means to change the body’s information ﬁeld and change the way it operates. DNA is a receiver- transmi er of information and can be mutated by information like mRNA synthetic messaging. Technology to do this has been ready and waiting in the underground bases and other secret projects to be rolled out when the ‘Covid’ hoax was played. ‘Trials’ of such short and irrelevant duration were only for public consumption. When they say the ‘vaccine’ is ‘experimental’ that is not true. It may appear to be ‘experimental’ to those who don’t know what’s going on, but the trials have already been done to ensure the Cult gets the result it desires. Zaks said that it took decades to sequence the human genome, completed in 2003, but now they could do it in a week. By ‘they’ he means scientists operating in the public domain. In the secret projects they were sequencing the genome in a week long before even 2003.

Deluge of mRNA Highly signiﬁcantly the Moderna document says the guiding premise is that if using mRNA as a medicine works for one disease then it should work for many diseases. They were leveraging the ﬂexibility aﬀorded by their platform and the fundamental role mRNA plays in protein synthesis to pursue mRNA medicines for a broad spectrum of diseases. Moderna is conﬁrming what I was saying through 2020 that multiple ‘vaccines’ were planned for ‘Covid’ (and later invented ‘variants’) and that previous vaccines would be converted to the mRNA system to infuse the body with massive amounts of genetically-manipulating synthetic material to secure a transformation to a synthetic-biological state. The ‘vaccines’ are designed to kill stunning numbers as part of the long-exposed Cult depopulation agenda and transform the rest. Given this is the goal you can appreciate why there is such hysterical demand for every human to be ‘vaccinated’ for an alleged ‘disease’ that has an estimated ‘infection’ to ‘death’ ratio of 0.23-0.15 percent. As I write children are being given the ‘vaccine’ in trials (their parents are a disgrace) and ever-younger people are being oﬀered the vaccine for a ‘virus’ that even if you believe it exists has virtually zero chance of harming them. Horriﬁc eﬀects of the ‘trials’ on a 12-year-old girl were revealed by a family member to be serious brain and gastric problems that included a bowel obstruction and the inability to swallow liquids or solids. She was unable to eat or drink without throwing up, had extreme pain in her back, neck and abdomen, and was paralysed from the waist down which stopped her urinating unaided. When the girl was ﬁrst taken to hospital doctors said it was all in her mind. She was signed up for the ‘trial’ by her parents for whom no words suﬃce. None of this ‘Covid vaccine’ insanity makes any sense unless you see what the ‘vaccine’ really is – a body- changer. Synthetic biology or ‘SynBio’ is a fast-emerging and expanding scientiﬁc discipline which includes everything from genetic and molecular engineering to electrical and computer engineering. Synthetic biology is deﬁned in these ways:

• A multidisciplinary area of research that seeks to create new biological parts, devices, and systems, or to redesign systems that are already found in nature.

• The use of a mixture of physical engineering and genetic engineering to create new (and therefore synthetic) life forms.

• An emerging ﬁeld of research that aims to combine the knowledge and methods of biology, engineering and related disciplines in the design of chemically-synthesized DNA to create organisms with novel or enhanced characteristics and traits (synthetic organisms including humans).

We now have synthetic blood, skin, organs and limbs being developed along with synthetic body parts produced by 3D printers. These are all elements of the synthetic human programme and this comment by Kurzweil’s co-founder of the Singularity University, Peter Diamandis, can be seen in a whole new light with the ‘Covid’ hoax and the sanctions against those that refuse the ‘vaccine’:

Anybody who is going to be resisting the progress forward [to transhumanism] is going to be resisting evolution and, fundamentally, they will die out. It’s not a matter of whether it’s good or bad. It’s going to happen.


‘Resisting evolution’? What absolute bollocks. The arrogance of these people is without limit. His ‘it’s going to happen’ mantra is another way of saying ‘resistance is futile’ to break the spirit of those pushing back and we must not fall for it. Ge ing this genetically- transforming ‘vaccine’ into everyone is crucial to the Cult plan for total control and the desperation to achieve that is clear for anyone to see. Vaccine passports are a major factor in this and they, too, are a form of resistance is futile. It’s NOT. The paper funded by the Rockefeller Foundation for the 2013 ‘health conference’ in China said:

We will interact more with artificial intelligence. The use of robotics, bio-engineering to augment human functioning is already well underway and will advance. Re-engineering of humans into potentially separate and unequal forms through genetic engineering or mixed human-robots raises debates on ethics and equality.

A new demography is projected to emerge after 2030 [that year again] of technologies (robotics, genetic engineering, nanotechnology) producing robots, engineered organisms, ‘nanobots’ and artificial intelligence (AI) that can self-replicate. Debates will grow on the implications of an impending reality of human designed life.


 What is happening today is so long planned. The world army enforcing the will of the world government is intended to be a robot army, not a human one. Today’s military and its technologically ‘enhanced’ troops, pilotless planes and driverless vehicles are just stepping stones to that end. Human soldiers are used as Cult fodder and its time they woke up to that and worked for the freedom of the population instead of their own destruction and their family’s destruction – the same with the police. Join us and let’s sort this out. The phenomenon of enforce my own destruction is widespread in the ‘Covid’ era with Woker ‘luvvies’ in the acting and entertainment industries supporting ‘Covid’ rules which have destroyed their profession and the same with those among the public who put signs on the doors of their businesses ‘closed due to Covid – stay safe’ when many will never reopen. It’s a form of masochism and most certainly insanity.

Transgender = transhumanism When something explodes out of nowhere and is suddenly everywhere it is always the Cult agenda and so it is with the tidal wave of claims and demands that have inﬁltrated every aspect of society under the heading of ‘transgenderism’. The term ‘trans’ is so ‘in’ and this is the dictionary deﬁnition:

A prefix meaning ‘across’, ’through’, occurring … in loanwords from Latin, used in particular for denoting movement or conveyance from place to place (transfer; transmit; transplant) or complete change (transform; transmute), or to form adjectives meaning ’crossing’, ‘on the other side of’, or ‘going beyond’ the place named (transmontane; transnational; trans- Siberian).


 Transgender means to go beyond gender and transhuman means to go beyond human. Both are aspects of the Cult plan to transform the human body to a synthetic state with no gender. Human 2.0 is not designed to procreate and would be produced technologically with no need for parents. The new human would mean the end of parents and so men, and increasingly women, are being targeted for the deletion of their rights and status. Parental rights are disappearing at an ever-quickening speed for the same reason. The new human would have no need for men or women when there is no procreation and no gender. Perhaps the transgender movement that appears to be in a permanent state of frenzy might now contemplate on how it is being used. This was never about transgender rights which are only the interim excuse for confusing gender, particularly in the young, on the road to fusing gender. Transgender activism is not an end; it is a means to an end. We see again the technique of creative destruction in which you destroy the status quo to ‘build back be er’ in the form that you want. The gender status quo had to be destroyed by persuading the Cult-created Woke mentality to believe that you can have 100 genders or more. A programme for 9 to 12 year olds produced by the Cult-owned BBC promoted the 100 genders narrative. The very idea may be the most monumental nonsense, but it is not what is true that counts, only what you can make people believe is true. Once the gender of 2 + 2 = 4 has been dismantled through indoctrination, intimidation and 2 + 2 = 5 then the new no-gender normal can take its place with Human 2.0. Aldous Huxley revealed the plan in his prophetic Brave New World in 1932:

Natural reproduction has been done away with and children are created, decanted’, and raised in ‘hatcheries and conditioning centres’. From birth, people are genetically designed to fit into one of five castes, which are further split into ‘Plus’ and ‘Minus’ members and designed to fulfil predetermined positions within the social and economic strata of the World State.


How could Huxley know this in 1932? For the same reason George Orwell knew about the Big Brother state in 1948, Cult insiders I have quoted knew about it in 1969, and I have known about it since the early 1990s. If you are connected to the Cult or you work your balls oﬀ to uncover the plan you can predict the future. The process is simple. If there is a plan for the world and nothing intervenes to stop it then it will happen. Thus if you communicate the plan ahead of time you are perceived to have predicted the future, but you haven’t. You have revealed the plan which without intervention will become the human future. The whole reason I have done what I have is to alert enough people to inspire an intervention and maybe at last that time has come with the Cult and its intentions now so obvious to anyone with a brain in working order.

The future is here Technological wombs that Huxley described to replace parent procreation are already being developed and they are only the projects we know about in the public arena. Israeli scientists told The Times of Israel in March, 2021, that they have grown 250-cell embryos into mouse foetuses with fully formed organs using artiﬁcial wombs in a development they say could pave the way for gestating humans outside the womb. Professor Jacob Hanna of the Weizmann Institute of Science said:

We took mouse embryos from the mother at day five of development, when they are just of 250 cells, and had them in the incubator from day five until day 11, by which point they had grown all their organs.

By day 11 they make their own blood and have a beating heart, a fully developed brain. Anybody would look at them and say, ‘this is clearly a mouse foetus with all the characteristics of a mouse.’ It’s gone from being a ball of cells to being an advanced foetus.


A special liquid is used to nourish embryo cells in a laboratory dish and they ﬂoat on the liquid to duplicate the ﬁrst stage of embryonic development. The incubator creates all the right conditions for its development, Hanna said. The liquid gives the embryo ‘all the nutrients, hormones and sugars they need’ along with a custom-made electronic incubator which controls gas concentration, pressure and temperature. The cu ing-edge in the underground bases and other secret locations will be light years ahead of that, however, and this was reported by the London Guardian in 2017:

We are approaching a biotechnological breakthrough. Ectogenesis, the invention of a complete external womb, could completely change the nature of human reproduction. In April this year, researchers at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia announced their development of an artificial womb.


The article was headed ‘Artiﬁcial wombs could soon be a reality. What will this mean for women?’ What would it mean for children is an even bigger question. No mother to bond with only a machine in preparation for a life of soulless interaction and control in a world governed by machines (see the Matrix movies). Now observe the calculated manipulations of the ‘Covid’ hoax as human interaction and warmth has been curtailed by distancing, isolation and fear with people communicating via machines on a scale never seen before. These are all dots in the same picture as are all the personal assistants, gadgets and children’s toys through which kids and adults communicate with AI as if it is human. The AI ‘voice’ on Sat- Nav should be included. All these things are psychological preparation for the Cult endgame. Before you can make a physical connection with AI you have to make a psychological connection and that is what people are being conditioned to do with this ever gathering human-AI interaction. Movies and TV programmes depicting the transhuman, robot dystopia relate to a phenomenon known as ‘pre-emptive programming’ in which the world that is planned is portrayed everywhere in movies, TV and advertising. This is conditioning the conscious and subconscious mind to become familiar with the planned reality to dilute resistance when it happens for real. What would have been a shock such is the change is made less so. We have young children put on the road to transgender transition surgery with puberty blocking drugs at an age when they could never be able to make those life-changing decisions.  Rachel Levine, a professor of paediatrics and psychiatry who believes in treating children this way, became America’s highest- ranked openly-transgender oﬃcial when she was conﬁrmed as US Assistant Secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services a er being nominated by Joe Biden (the Cult). Activists and governments press for laws to deny parents a say in their children’s transition process so the kids can be isolated and manipulated into agreeing to irreversible medical procedures. A Canadian father Robert Hoogland was denied bail by the Vancouver Supreme Court in 2021 and remained in jail for breaching a court order that he stay silent over his young teenage daughter, a minor, who was being oﬀered life-changing hormone therapy without parental consent. At the age of 12 the girl’s ‘school counsellor’ said she may be transgender, referred her to a doctor and told the school to treat her like a boy. This is another example of state-serving schools imposing ever more control over children’s lives while parents have ever less. Contemptible and extreme child abuse is happening all over the world as the Cult gender-fusion operation goes into warp-speed.

Why the war on men – and now women? The question about what artiﬁcial wombs mean for women should rightly be asked. The answer can be seen in the deletion of women’s rights involving sport, changing rooms, toilets and status in favour of people in male bodies claiming to identify as women. I can identify as a mountain climber, but it doesn’t mean I can climb a mountain any more than a biological man can be a biological woman. To believe so is a triumph of belief over factual reality which is the very perceptual basis of everything Woke. Women’s sport is being destroyed by allowing those with male bodies who say they identify as female to ‘compete’ with girls and women. Male body ‘women’ dominate ‘women’s’ competition with their greater muscle mass, bone density, strength and speed. With that disadvantage sport for women loses all meaning. To put this in perspective nearly 300 American high school boys can run faster than the quickest woman sprinter in the world. Women are seeing their previously protected spaces invaded by male bodies simply because they claim to identify as women. That’s all they need to do to access all women’s spaces and activities under the Biden ‘Equality Act’ that destroys equality for women with the usual Orwellian Woke inversion. Male sex oﬀenders have already commi ed rapes in women’s prisons a er claiming to identify as women to get them transferred. Does this not ma er to the Woke ‘equality’ hypocrites? Not in the least. What ma ers to Cult manipulators and funders behind transgender activists is to advance gender fusion on the way to the no-gender ‘human’. When you are seeking to impose transparent nonsense like this, or the ‘Covid’ hoax, the only way the nonsense can prevail is through censorship and intimidation of dissenters, deletion of factual information, and programming of the unquestioning, bewildered and naive. You don’t have to scan the world for long to see that all these things are happening.  Many women’s rights organisations have realised that rights and status which took such a long time to secure are being eroded and that it is systematic. Kara Dansky of the global Women’s Human Rights Campaign said that Biden’s transgender executive order immediately he took oﬃce, subsequent orders, and Equality Act legislation that followed ‘seek to erase women and girls in the law as a category’. Exactly. I said during the long ago-started war on men (in which many women play a crucial part) that this was going to turn into a war on them. The Cult is phasing out both male and female genders. To get away with that they are brought into conﬂict so they are busy ﬁghting each other while the Cult completes the job with no unity of response. Unity, people, unity. We need unity everywhere. Transgender is the only show in town as the big step towards the no-gender human. It’s not about rights for transgender people and never has been. Woke political correctness is deleting words relating to genders to the same end. Wokers believe this is to be ‘inclusive’ when the opposite is true. They are deleting words describing gender because gender itself is being deleted by Human 2.0. Terms like ‘man’, ‘woman’, ‘mother’ and ‘father’ are being deleted in the universities and other institutions to be replaced by the no-gender, not trans-gender, ‘individuals’ and ‘guardians’. Women’s rights campaigner Maria Keﬄer of Partners for Ethical Care said: ‘Children are being taught from kindergarten upward that some boys have a vagina, some girls have a penis, and that kids can be any gender they want to be.’ Do we really believe that suddenly countries all over the world at the same time had the idea of having drag queens go into schools or read transgender stories to very young children in the local library? It’s coldly-calculated confusion of gender on the way to the fusion of gender. Suzanne Vierling, a psychologist from Southern California, made another important point:

Yesterday’s slave woman who endured gynecological medical experiments is today’s girl- child being butchered in a booming gender-transitioning sector. Ovaries removed, pushing her into menopause and osteoporosis, uncharted territory, and parents’ rights and authority decimated. The erosion of parental rights is a common theme in line with the Cult plans to erase the very concept of parents and ‘ovaries removed, pushing her into menopause’ means what? Those born female lose the ability to have children – another way to discontinue humanity as we know it.

Eliminating Human 1.0 (before our very eyes) To pave the way for Human 2.0 you must phase out Human 1.0. This is happening through plummeting sperm counts and making women infertile through an onslaught of chemicals, radiation (including smartphones in pockets of men) and mRNA ‘vaccines’. Common agriculture pesticides are also having a devastating impact on human fertility. I have been tracking collapsing sperm counts in the books for a long time and in 2021 came a book by fertility scientist and reproductive epidemiologist Shanna Swan, Count Down: How Our Modern World Is Threatening Sperm Counts, Altering Male and Female Reproductive Development and Imperiling the Future of the Human Race. She reports how the global fertility rate dropped by half between 1960 and 2016 with America’s birth rate 16 percent below where it needs to be to sustain the population. Women are experiencing declining egg quality, more miscarriages, and more couples suﬀer from infertility. Other ﬁndings were an increase in erectile dysfunction, infant boys developing more genital abnormalities, male problems with conception, and plunging levels of the male hormone testosterone which would explain why so many men have lost their backbone and masculinity. This has been very evident during the ‘Covid’ hoax when women have been prominent among the Pushbackers and big strapping blokes have bowed their heads, covered their faces with a nappy and quietly submi ed. Mind control expert Cathy O’Brien also points to how global education introduced the concept of ‘we’re all winners’ in sport and classrooms: ‘Competition was defused, and it in turn defused a sense of ﬁghting back.’ This is another version of the ‘equity’ doctrine in which you drive down rather than raise up. What a contrast in Cult-controlled China with its global ambitions where the government published plans in January, 2021, to ‘cultivate masculinity’ in boys from kindergarten through to high school in the face of a ‘masculinity crisis’. A government adviser said boys would be soon become ‘delicate, timid and eﬀeminate’ unless action was taken. Don’t expect any similar policy in the targeted West. A 2006 study showed that a 65-year-old man in 2002 had testosterone levels 15 percent lower than a 65-year-old man in 1987 while a 2020 study found a similar story with young adults and adolescents. Men are ge ing prescriptions for testosterone replacement therapy which causes an even greater drop in sperm count with up to 99 percent seeing sperm counts drop to zero during the treatment. More sperm is defective and malfunctioning with some having two heads or not pursuing an egg.  A class of synthetic chemicals known as phthalates are being blamed for the decline. These are found everywhere in plastics, shampoos, cosmetics, furniture, ﬂame retardants, personal care products, pesticides, canned foods and even receipts. Why till receipts? Everyone touches them. Let no one delude themselves that all this is not systematic to advance the long-time agenda for human body transformation. Phthalates mimic hormones and disrupt the hormone balance causing testosterone to fall and genital birth defects in male infants. Animals and ﬁsh have been aﬀected in the same way due to phthalates and other toxins in rivers. When ﬁsh turn gay or change sex through chemicals in rivers and streams it is a pointer to why there has been such an increase in gay people and the sexually confused. It doesn’t ma er to me what sexuality people choose to be, but if it’s being aﬀected by chemical pollution and consumption then we need to know. Does anyone really think that this is not connected to the transgender agenda, the war on men and the condemnation of male ‘toxic masculinity’? You watch this being followed by ‘toxic femininity’. It’s already happening. When breastfeeding becomes ‘chest-feeding’, pregnant women become pregnant people along with all the other Woke claptrap you know that the world is going insane and there’s a Cult scam in progress. Transgender activists are promoting the Cult agenda while Cult billionaires support and fund the insanity as they laugh themselves to sleep at the sheer stupidity for which humans must be infamous in galaxies far, far away.

‘Covid vaccines’ and female infertility We can now see why the ‘vaccine’ has been connected to potential infertility in women. Dr Michael Yeadon, former Vice President and Chief Scientiﬁc Advisor at Pﬁzer, and Dr Wolfgang Wodarg in Germany, ﬁled a petition with the European Medicines Agency in December, 2020, urging them to stop trials for the Pﬁzer/BioNTech shot and all other mRNA trials until further studies had been done. They were particularly concerned about possible eﬀects on fertility with ‘vaccine’-produced antibodies a acking the protein Syncytin-1 which is responsible for developing the placenta. The result would be infertility ‘of indeﬁnite duration’ in women who have the ‘vaccine’ with the placenta failing to form. Section 10.4.2 of the Pﬁzer/BioNTech trial protocol says that pregnant women or those who might become so should not have mRNA shots. Section 10.4 warns men taking mRNA shots to ‘be abstinent from heterosexual intercourse’ and not to donate sperm. The UK government said that it did not know if the mRNA procedure had an eﬀect on fertility. Did not know? These people have to go to jail. UK government advice did not recommend at the start that pregnant women had the shot and said they should avoid pregnancy for at least two months a er ‘vaccination’. The ‘advice’ was later updated to pregnant women should only have the ‘vaccine’ if the beneﬁts outweighed the risks to mother and foetus. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Then ‘spontaneous abortions’ began to appear and rapidly increase on the adverse reaction reporting schemes which include only a fraction of adverse reactions. Thousands and ever-growing numbers of ‘vaccinated’ women are describing changes to their menstrual cycle with heavier blood ﬂow, irregular periods and menstruating again a er going through the menopause – all links to reproduction eﬀects. Women are passing blood clots and the lining of their uterus while men report erectile dysfunction and blood eﬀects. Most signiﬁcantly of all unvaccinated women began to report similar menstrual changes a er interaction with ‘vaccinated’ people and men and children were also aﬀected with bleeding noses, blood clots and other conditions. ‘Shedding’ is when vaccinated people can emit the content of a vaccine to aﬀect the unvaccinated, but this is diﬀerent. ‘Vaccinated’ people were not shedding a ‘live virus’ allegedly in ‘vaccines’ as before because the fake ‘Covid vaccines’ involve synthetic material and other toxicity. Doctors exposing what is happening prefer the term ‘transmission’ to shedding. Somehow those that have had the shots are transmi ing eﬀects to those that haven’t. Dr Carrie Madej said the nano-content of the ‘vaccines’ can ‘act like an antenna’ to others around them which ﬁts perfectly with my own conclusions. This ‘vaccine’ transmission phenomenon was becoming known as the book went into production and I deal with this further in the Postscript.  Vaccine eﬀects on sterility are well known. The World Health Organization was accused in 2014 of sterilising millions of women in Kenya with the evidence conﬁrmed by the content of the vaccines involved. The same WHO behind the ‘Covid’ hoax admi ed its involvement for more than ten years with the vaccine programme. Other countries made similar claims. Charges were lodged by Tanzania, Nicaragua, Mexico, and the Philippines. The Gardasil vaccine claimed to protect against a genital ‘virus’ known as HPV has also been linked to infertility. Big Pharma and the WHO (same thing) are criminal and satanic entities. Then there’s the Bill Gates Foundation which is connected through funding and shared interests with 20 pharmaceutical giants and laboratories. He stands accused of directing the policy of United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), vaccine alliance GAVI, and other groupings, to advance the vaccine agenda and silence opposition at great cost to women and children. At the same time Gates wants to reduce the global population. Coincidence?

Great Reset = Smart Grid = new human The Cult agenda I have been exposing for 30 years is now being openly promoted by Cult assets like Gates and Klaus Schwab of the World Economic Forum under code-terms like the ‘Great Reset’, ‘Build Back Be er’ and ‘a rare but narrow window of opportunity to reﬂect, reimagine, and reset our world’. What provided this ‘rare but narrow window of opportunity’? The ‘Covid’ hoax did. Who created that? They did. My books from not that long ago warned about the planned ‘Internet of Things’ (IoT) and its implications for human freedom. This was the plan to connect all technology to the Internet and artiﬁcial intelligence and today we are way down that road with an estimated 36 billion devices connected to the World Wide Web and that ﬁgure is projected to be 76 billion by 2025. I further warned that the Cult planned to go beyond that to the Internet of Everything when the human brain was connected via AI to the Internet and Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’. Now we have Cult operatives like Schwab calling for precisely that under the term ‘Internet of Bodies’, a fusion of the physical, digital and biological into one centrally-controlled Smart Grid system which the Cult refers to as the ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution’. They talk about the ‘biological’, but they really mean the synthetic-biological which is required to fully integrate the human body and brain into the Smart Grid and artiﬁcial intelligence planned to replace the human mind. We have everything being synthetically manipulated including the natural world through GMO and smart dust, the food we eat and the human body itself with synthetic ‘vaccines’. I said in The Answer that we would see the Cult push for synthetic meat to replace animals and in February, 2021, the so predictable psychopath Bill Gates called for the introduction of synthetic meat to save us all from ‘climate change’. The climate hoax just keeps on giving like the ‘Covid’ hoax. The war on meat by vegan activists is a carbon (oops, sorry) copy of the manipulation of transgender activists. They have no idea (except their inner core) that they are being used to promote and impose the agenda of the Cult or that they are only the vehicle and not the reason. This is not to say those who choose not to eat meat shouldn’t be respected and supported in that right, but there are ulterior motives for those in power. A Forbes article in December, 2019, highlighted the plan so beloved of Schwab and the Cult under the heading: ‘What Is The Internet of Bodies? And How Is It Changing Our World?’ The article said the human body is the latest data platform (remember ‘our vaccine is an operating system’). Forbes described the plan very accurately and the words could have come straight out of my books from long before:

The Internet of Bodies (IoB) is an extension of the IoT and basically connects the human body to a network through devices that are ingested, implanted, or connected to the body in some way. Once connected, data can be exchanged, and the body and device can be remotely monitored and controlled.


They were really describing a human hive mind with human perception centrally-dictated via an AI connection as well as allowing people to be ‘remotely monitored and controlled’. Everything from a fridge to a human mind could be directed from a central point by these insane psychopaths and ‘Covid vaccines’ are crucial to this. Forbes explained the process I mentioned earlier of holdable and wearable technology followed by implantable. The article said there were three generations of the Internet of Bodies that include:

• Body external: These are wearable devices such as Apple Watches or Fitbits that can monitor our health.

• Body internal: These include pacemakers, cochlear implants, and digital pills that go inside our bodies to monitor or control various aspects of health.

• Body embedded: The third generation of the Internet of Bodies is embedded technology where technology and the human body are melded together and have a real-time connection to a remote machine. Forbes noted the development of the Brain Computer Interface (BCI) which merges the brain with an external device for monitoring and controlling in real-time. ‘The ultimate goal is to help restore function to individuals with disabilities by using brain signals rather than conventional neuromuscular pathways.’ Oh, do fuck oﬀ. The goal of brain interface technology is controlling human thought and emotion from the central point in a hive mind serving its masters wishes. Many people are now agreeing to be chipped to open doors without a key. You can recognise them because they’ll be wearing a mask, social distancing and lining up for the ‘vaccine’. The Cult plans a Great Reset money system a er they have completed the demolition of the global economy in which ‘money’ will be exchanged through communication with body operating systems. Rand Corporation, a Cult-owned think tank, said of the Internet of Bodies or IoB:

Internet of Bodies technologies fall under the broader IoT umbrella. But as the name suggests, IoB devices introduce an even more intimate interplay between humans and gadgets. IoB devices monitor the human body, collect health metrics and other personal information, and transmit those data over the Internet. Many devices, such as fitness trackers, are already in use … IoB devices … and those in development can track, record, and store users’ whereabouts, bodily functions, and what they see, hear, and even think.


 Schwab’s World Economic Forum, a long-winded way of saying ‘fascism’ or ‘the Cult’, has gone full-on with the Internet of Bodies in the ‘Covid’ era. ‘We’re entering the era of the Internet of Bodies’, it declared, ‘collecting our physical data via a range of devices that can be implanted, swallowed or worn’. The result would be a huge amount of health-related data that could improve human wellbeing around the world, and prove crucial in ﬁghting the ‘Covid-19 pandemic’. Does anyone think these clowns care about ‘human wellbeing’ a er the death and devastation their pandemic hoax has purposely caused? Schwab and co say we should move forward with the Internet of Bodies because ‘Keeping track of symptoms could help us stop the spread of infection, and quickly detect new cases’. How wonderful, but keeping track’ is all they are really bothered about. Researchers were investigating if data gathered from smartwatches and similar devices could be used as viral infection alerts by tracking the user’s heart rate and breathing. Schwab said in his 2018 book Shaping the Future of the Fourth Industrial Revolution:

The lines between technologies and beings are becoming blurred and not just by the ability to create lifelike robots or synthetics. Instead it is about the ability of new technologies to literally become part of us. Technologies already influence how we understand ourselves, how we think about each other, and how we determine our realities. As the technologies … give us deeper access to parts of ourselves, we may begin to integrate digital technologies into our bodies.


You can see what the game is. Twenty-four hour control and people – if you could still call them that – would never know when something would go ping and take them out of circulation. It’s the most obvious rush to a global fascist dictatorship and the complete submission of humanity and yet still so many are locked away in their Cult-induced perceptual coma and can’t see it.

Smart Grid control centres The human body is being transformed by the ‘vaccines’ and in other ways into a synthetic cyborg that can be a ached to the global Smart Grid which would be controlled from a central point and other sub- locations of Grid manipulation. Where are these planned to be? Well, China for a start which is one of the Cult’s biggest centres of operation. The technological control system and technocratic rule was incubated here to be unleashed across the world a er the ‘Covid’ hoax came out of China in 2020. Another Smart Grid location that will surprise people new to this is Israel. I have exposed in The Trigger how Sabbatian technocrats, intelligence and military operatives were behind the horrors of 9/11 and not 1̀9 Arab hĳackers’ who somehow manifested the ability to pilot big passenger airliners when instructors at puddle-jumping ﬂying schools described some of them as a joke. The 9/11 a acks were made possible through control of civilian and military air computer systems and those of the White House, Pentagon and connected agencies. See The Trigger – it will blow your mind. The controlling and coordinating force were the Sabbatian networks in Israel and the United States which by then had inﬁltrated the entire US government, military and intelligence system. The real name of the American Deep State is ‘Sabbatian State’. Israel is a tiny country of only nine million people, but it is one of the global centres of cyber operations and fast catching Silicon Valley in importance to the Cult. Israel is known as the ‘start-up nation’ for all the cyber companies spawned there with the Sabbatian specialisation of ‘cyber security’ that I mentioned earlier which gives those companies access to computer systems of their clients in real time through ‘backdoors’ wri en into the coding when security so ware is downloaded. The Sabbatian centre of cyber operations outside Silicon Valley is the Israeli military Cyber Intelligence Unit, the biggest infrastructure project in Israel’s history, headquartered in the desert-city of Beersheba and involving some 20,000 ‘cyber soldiers’. Here are located a literal army of Internet trolls scanning social media, forums and comment lists for anyone challenging the Cult agenda. The UK military has something similar with its 77th Brigade and associated operations. The Beersheba complex includes research and development centres for other Cult operations such as Intel, Microso , IBM, Google, Apple, Hewle - Packard, Cisco Systems, Facebook and Motorola. Techcrunch.com ran an article about the Beersheba global Internet technology centre headlined ‘Israel’s desert city of Beersheba is turning into a cybertech oasis’:

The military’s massive relocation of its prestigious technology units, the presence of multinational and local companies, a close proximity to Ben Gurion University and generous government subsidies are turning Beersheba into a major global cybertech hub. Beersheba has all of the ingredients of a vibrant security technology ecosystem, including Ben Gurion University with its graduate program in cybersecurity and Cyber Security Research Center, and the presence of companies such as EMC, Deutsche Telekom, PayPal, Oracle, IBM, and Lockheed Martin. It’s also the future home of the INCB (Israeli National Cyber Bureau); offers a special income tax incentive for cyber security companies, and was the site for the relocation of the army’s intelligence corps units.  Sabbatians have taken over the cyber world through the following process: They scan the schools for likely cyber talent and develop them at Ben Gurion University and their period of conscription in the Israeli Defense Forces when they are stationed at the Beersheba complex. When the cyber talented oﬃcially leave the army they are funded to start cyber companies with technology developed by themselves or given to them by the state. Much of this is stolen through backdoors of computer systems around the world with America top of the list. Others are sent oﬀ to Silicon Valley to start companies or join the major ones and so we have many major positions ﬁlled by apparently ‘Jewish’ but really Sabbatian operatives. Google, YouTube and Facebook are all run by ‘Jewish’ CEOs while Twi er is all but run by ultra-Zionist hedge-fund shark Paul Singer. At the centre of the Sabbatian global cyber web is the Israeli army’s Unit 8200 which specialises in hacking into computer systems of other countries, inserting viruses, gathering information, instigating malfunction, and even taking control of them from a distance. A long list of Sabbatians involved with 9/11, Silicon Valley and Israeli cyber security companies are operatives of Unit 8200. This is not about Israel. It’s about the Cult. Israel is planned to be a Smart Grid hub as with China and what is happening at Beersheba is not for the beneﬁt of Jewish people who are treated disgustingly by the Sabbatian elite that control the country. A glance at the Nuremberg Codes will tell you that.  The story is much bigger than ‘Covid’, important as that is to where we are being taken. Now, though, it’s time to really strap in. There’s more … much more …  CHAPTER ELEVEN

Who controls the Cult?

 Awake, arise or be forever fall’n  John Milton, Paradise Lost



Ihave exposed this far the level of the Cult conspiracy that operates  in the world of the seen and within the global secret society and satanic network which operates in the shadows one step back from the seen. The story, however, goes much deeper than that. The ‘Covid’ hoax is major part of the Cult agenda, but only part, and to grasp the biggest picture we have to expand our a ention beyond the realm of human sight and into the inﬁnity of possibility that we cannot see. It is from here, ultimately, that humanity is being manipulated into a state of total control by the force which dictates the actions of the Cult. How much of reality can we see? Next to damn all is the answer. We may appear to see all there is to see in the ‘space’ our eyes survey and observe, but li le could be further from the truth. The human ‘world’ is only a tiny band of frequency that the body’s visual and perceptual systems can decode into perception of a ‘world’. According to mainstream science the electromagnetic spectrum is 0.005 percent of what exists in the Universe (Fig 10). The maximum estimate I have seen is 0.5 percent and either way it’s miniscule. I say it is far, far, smaller even than 0.005 percent when you compare reality we see with the totality of reality that we don’t. Now get this if you are new to such information: Visible light, the only band of frequency that we can see, is a fraction of the 0.005 percent (Fig 11 overleaf). Take this further and realise that our universe is one of inﬁnite universes and that universes are only a fragment of overall reality – infinite reality. Then compare that with the almost inﬁnitesimal frequency band of visible light or human sight. You see that humans are as near blind as it is possible to be without actually being so. Artist and ﬁlmmaker, Sergio Toporek, said:




Figure 10: Humans can perceive such a tiny band of visual reality it’s laughable.




Figure 11: We can see a smear of the 0.005 percent electromagnetic spectrum, but we still know it all. Yep, makes sense.


Consider that you can see less than 1% of the electromagnetic spectrum and hear less than 1% of the acoustic spectrum. 90% of the cells in your body carry their own microbial DNA and are not ‘you’. The atoms in your body are 99.9999999999999999% empty space and none of them are the ones you were born with ... Human beings have 46 chromosomes, two less than a potato. The existence of the rainbow depends on the conical photoreceptors in your eyes; to animals without cones, the rainbow does not exist. So you don’t just look at a rainbow, you create it. This is pretty amazing, especially considering that all the beautiful colours you see represent less than 1% of the electromagnetic spectrum.


Suddenly the ‘world’ of humans looks a very diﬀerent place. Take into account, too, that Planet Earth when compared with the projected size of this single universe is the equivalent of a billionth of a pinhead. Imagine the ratio that would be when compared to inﬁnite reality. To think that Christianity once insisted that Earth and humanity were the centre of everything. This background is vital if we are going to appreciate the nature of ‘human’ and how we can be manipulated by an unseen force. To human visual reality virtually everything is unseen and yet the prevailing perception within the institutions and so much of the public is that if we can’t see it, touch it, hear it, taste it and smell it then it cannot exist. Such perception is indoctrinated and encouraged by the Cult and its agents because it isolates believers in the strictly limited, village-idiot, realm of the ﬁve senses where perceptions can be ﬁrewalled and information controlled. Most of those perpetuating the ‘this-world-is-all-there-is’ insanity are themselves indoctrinated into believing the same delusion. While major players and inﬂuencers know that oﬃcial reality is laughable most of those in science, academia and medicine really believe the nonsense they peddle and teach succeeding generations. Those who challenge the orthodoxy are dismissed as nu ers and freaks to protect the manufactured illusion from exposure. Observe the dynamic of the ‘Covid’ hoax and you will see how that takes the same form. The inner-circle psychopaths knows it’s a gigantic scam, but almost the entirety of those imposing their fascist rules believe that ‘Covid’ is all that they’re told it is.

Stolen identity Ask people who they are and they will give you their name, place of birth, location, job, family background and life story. Yet that is not who they are – it is what they are experiencing. The diﬀerence is absolutely crucial. The true ‘I’, the eternal, inﬁnite ‘I’, is consciousness, a state of being aware. Forget ‘form’. That is a vehicle for a brief experience. Consciousness does not come from the brain, but through the brain and even that is more symbolic than literal. We are awareness, pure awareness, and this is what withdraws from the body at what we call ‘death’ to continue our eternal beingness, isness, in other realms of reality within the limitlessness of inﬁnity or the Biblical ‘many mansions in my father’s house’. Labels of a human life, man, woman, transgender, black, white, brown, nationality, circumstances and income are not who we are. They are what we are – awareness – is experiencing in a brief connection with a band of frequency we call ‘human’. The labels are not the self; they are, to use the title of one of my books, a Phantom Self. I am not David Icke born in Leicester, England, on April 29th, 1952. I am the consciousness having that experience. The Cult and its non-human masters seek to convince us through the institutions of ‘education’, science, medicine, media and government that what we are experiencing is who we are. It’s so easy to control and direct perception locked away in the bewildered illusions of the ﬁve senses with no expanded radar. Try, by contrast, doing the same with a humanity aware of its true self and its true power to consciously create its reality and experience. How is it possible to do this? We do it all day every day. If you perceive yourself as ‘li le me’ with no power to impact upon your life and the world then your life experience will reﬂect that. You will hand the power you don’t think you have to authority in all its forms which will use it to control your experience. This, in turn, will appear to conﬁrm your perception of ‘li le me’ in a self-fulﬁlling feedback loop. But that is what ‘li le me’ really is – a perception. We are all ‘big-me’, inﬁnite me, and the Cult has to make us forget that if its will is to prevail. We are therefore manipulated and pressured into self-identifying with human labels and not the consciousness/awareness experiencing those human labels.  The phenomenon of identity politics is a Cult-instigated manipulation technique to sub-divide previous labels into even smaller ones. A United States university employs this list of le ers to describe student identity: LGBTTQQFAGPBDSM or lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, transsexual, queer, questioning, ﬂexual, asexual, gender-fuck, polyamorous, bondage/discipline, dominance/submission and sadism/masochism. I’m sure other lists are even longer by now as people feel the need to self-identity the ‘I’ with the minutiae of race and sexual preference. Wokers programmed by the Cult for generations believe this is about ‘inclusivity’ when it’s really the Cult locking them away into smaller and smaller versions of Phantom Self while ﬁrewalling them from the inﬂuence of their true self, the inﬁnite, eternal ‘I’. You may notice that my philosophy which contends that we are all unique points of a ention/awareness within the same inﬁnite whole or Oneness is the ultimate non-racism. The very sense of Oneness makes the judgement of people by their body-type, colour or sexuality u erly ridiculous and conﬁrms that racism has no understanding of reality (including anti-white racism). Yet despite my perception of life Cult agents and fast-asleep Wokers label me racist to discredit my information while they are themselves phenomenally racist and sexist. All they see is race and sexuality and they judge people as good or bad, demons or untouchables, by their race and sexuality. All they see is Phantom Self and perceive themselves in terms of Phantom Self. They are pawns and puppets of the Cult agenda to focus a ention and self-identity in the ﬁve senses and play those identities against each other to divide and rule. Columbia University has introduced segregated graduations in another version of social distancing designed to drive people apart and teach them that diﬀerent racial and cultural groups have nothing in common with each other. The last thing the Cult wants is unity. Again the pump- primers of this will be Cult operatives in the knowledge of what they are doing, but the rest are just the Phantom Self blind leading the Phantom Self blind. We do have something in common – we are all the same consciousness having diﬀerent temporary experiences.

What is this ‘human’? Yes, what is ‘human’? That is what we are supposed to be, right? I mean ‘human’? True, but ‘human’ is the experience not the ‘I’. Break it down to basics and ‘human’ is the way that information is processed. If we are to experience and interact with this band of frequency we call the ‘world’ we must have a vehicle that operates within that band of frequency. Our consciousness in its prime form cannot do that; it is way beyond the frequency of the human realm. My consciousness or awareness could not tap these keys and pick up the cup in front of me in the same way that radio station A cannot interact with radio station B when they are on diﬀerent frequencies. The human body is the means through which we have that interaction. I have long described the body as a biological computer which processes information in a way that allows consciousness to experience this reality. The body is a receiver, transmi er and processor of information in a particular way that we call human. We visually perceive only the world of the ﬁve senses in a wakened state – that is the limit of the body’s visual decoding system. In truth it’s not even visual in the way we experience ‘visual reality’ as I will come to in a moment. We are ‘human’ because the body processes the information sources of human into a reality and behaviour system that we perceive as human. Why does an elephant act like an elephant and not like a human or a duck? The elephant’s biological computer is a diﬀerent information ﬁeld and processes information according to that program into a visual and behaviour type we call an elephant. The same applies to everything in our reality. These body information ﬁelds are perpetuated through procreation (like making a copy of a so ware program). The Cult wants to break that cycle and intervene technologically to transform the human information ﬁeld into one that will change what we call humanity. If it can change the human information ﬁeld it will change the way that ﬁeld processes information and change humanity both ‘physically’ and psychologically. Hence the messenger (information) RNA ‘vaccines’ and so much more that is targeting human genetics by changing the body’s information – messaging – construct through food, drink, radiation, toxicity and other means.  Reality that we experience is nothing like reality as it really is in the same way that the reality people experience in virtual reality games is not the reality they are really living in. The game is only a decoded source of information that appears to be a reality. Our world is also an information construct – a simulation (more later). In its base form our reality is a waveﬁeld of information much the same in theme as Wi-Fi. The ﬁve senses decode waveﬁeld information into electrical information which they communicate to the brain to decode into holographic (illusory ‘physical’) information. Diﬀerent parts of the brain specialise in decoding diﬀerent senses and the information is fused into a reality that appears to be outside of us but is really inside the brain and the genetic structure in general (Fig 12 overleaf). DNA is a receiver-transmi er of information and a vital part of this decoding process and the body’s connection to other realities. Change DNA and you change the way we decode and connect with reality – see ‘Covid vaccines’. Think of computers decoding Wi-Fi. You have information encoded in a radiation ﬁeld and the computer decodes that information into a very diﬀerent form on the screen. You can’t see the Wi-Fi until its information is made manifest on the screen and the information on the screen is inside the computer and not outside. I have just described how we decode the ‘human world’. All ﬁve senses decode the waveform ‘Wi- Fi’ ﬁeld into electrical signals and the brain (computer) constructs reality inside the brain and not outside – ‘You don’t just look at a rainbow, you create it’. Sound is a simple example. We don’t hear sound until the brain decodes it. Waveform sound waves are picked up by the hearing sense and communicated to the brain in an electrical form to be decoded into the sounds that we hear. Everything we hear is inside the brain along with everything we see, feel, smell and taste. Words and language are waveform ﬁelds generated by our vocal chords which pass through this process until they are decoded by the brain into words that we hear. Diﬀerent languages are diﬀerent frequency ﬁelds or sound waves generated by vocal chords. Late British philosopher Alan Wa s said: Figure 12: The brain receives information from the five senses and constructs from that our perceived reality.


[Without the brain] the world is devoid of light, heat, weight, solidity, motion, space, time or any other imaginable feature. All these phenomena are interactions, or transactions, of vibrations with a certain arrangement of neurons.


That’s exactly what they are and scientist Robert Lanza describes in his book, Biocentrism, how we decode electromagnetic waves and energy into visual and ‘physical’ experience. He uses the example of a ﬂame emi ing photons, electromagnetic energy, each pulsing electrically and magnetically:

… these … invisible electromagnetic waves strike a human retina, and if (and only if) the waves happen to measure between 400 and 700 nano meters in length from crest to crest, then their energy is just right to deliver a stimulus to the 8 million cone-shaped cells in the retina.

Each in turn send an electrical pulse to a neighbour neuron, and on up the line this goes, at 250 mph, until it reaches the … occipital lobe of the brain, in the back of the head. There, a cascading complex of neurons fire from the incoming stimuli, and we subjectively perceive this experience as a yellow brightness occurring in a place we have been conditioned to call the ‘external world’.


You hear what you decode If a tree falls or a building collapses they make no noise unless someone is there to decode the energetic waves generated by the disturbance into what we call sound. Does a falling tree make a noise? Only if you hear it – decode it. Everything in our reality is a frequency ﬁeld of information operating within the overall ‘Wi-Fi’ ﬁeld that I call The Field. A vibrational disturbance is generated in The Field by the ﬁelds of the falling tree or building. These disturbance waves are what we decode into the sound of them falling. If no one is there to do that then neither will make any noise. Reality is created by the observer – decoder – and the perceptions of the observer aﬀect the decoding process. For this reason diﬀerent people – diﬀerent perceptions – will perceive the same reality or situation in a diﬀerent way. What one may perceive as a nightmare another will see as an opportunity. The question of why the Cult is so focused on controlling human perception now answers itself. All experienced reality is the act of decoding and we don’t experience Wi-Fi until it is decoded on the computer screen. The sight and sound of an Internet video is encoded in the Wi-Fi all around us, but we don’t see or hear it until the computer decodes that information. Taste, smell and touch are all phenomena of the brain as a result of the same process. We don’t taste, smell or feel anything except in the brain and there are pain relief techniques that seek to block the signal from the site of discomfort to the brain because if the brain doesn’t decode that signal we don’t feel pain. Pain is in the brain and only appears to be at the point of impact thanks to the feedback loop between them. We don’t see anything until electrical information from the sight senses is decoded in an area at the back of the brain. If that area is damaged we can go blind when our eyes are perfectly okay. So why do we go blind if we damage an eye? We damage the information processing between the waveform visual information and the visual decoding area of the brain. If information doesn’t reach the brain in a form it can decode then we can’t see the visual reality that it represents. What’s more the brain is decoding only a fraction of the information it receives and the rest is absorbed by the sub-conscious mind. This explanation is from the science magazine, Wonderpedia:

Every second, 11 million sensations crackle along these [brain] pathways ... The brain is confronted with an alarming array of images, sounds and smells which it rigorously filters down until it is left with a manageable list of around 40. Thus 40 sensations per second make up what we perceive as reality.


The ‘world’ is not what people are told to believe that is it and the inner circles of the Cult know that.

Illusory ‘physical’ reality We can only see a smear of 0.005 percent of the Universe which is only one of a vast array of universes – ‘mansions’ – within inﬁnite reality. Even then the brain decodes only 40 pieces of information (‘sensations’) from a potential 11 million that we receive every second. Two points strike you from this immediately: The sheer breathtaking stupidity of believing we know anything so rigidly that there’s nothing more to know; and the potential for these processes to be manipulated by a malevolent force to control the reality of the population. One thing I can say for sure with no risk of contradiction is that when you can perceive an almost indescribable fraction of inﬁnite reality there is always more to know as in tidal waves of it. Ancient Greek philosopher Socrates was so right when he said that wisdom is to know how li le we know. How obviously true that is when you think that we are experiencing a physical world of solidity that is neither physical nor solid and a world of apartness when everything is connected. Cult-controlled ‘science’ dismisses the so- called ‘paranormal’ and all phenomena related to that when the ‘para’-normal is perfectly normal and explains the alleged ‘great mysteries’ which dumbfound scientiﬁc minds. There is a reason for this. A ‘scientiﬁc mind’ in terms of the mainstream is a material mind, a ﬁve-sense mind imprisoned in see it, touch it, hear it, smell it and taste it. Phenomena and happenings that can’t be explained that way leave the ‘scientiﬁc mind’ bewildered and the rule is that if they can’t account for why something is happening then it can’t, by deﬁnition, be happening. I beg to diﬀer. Telepathy is thought waves passing through The Field (think wave disturbance again) to be decoded by someone able to connect with that wavelength (information). For example: You can pick up the thought waves of a friend at any distance and at the very least that will bring them to mind. A few minutes later the friend calls you. ‘My god’, you say, ‘that’s incredible – I was just thinking of you.’ Ah, but they were thinking of you before they made the call and that’s what you decoded. Native peoples not entrapped in ﬁve-sense reality do this so well it became known as the ‘bush telegraph’. Those known as psychics and mediums (genuine ones) are doing the same only across dimensions of reality. ‘Mind over ma er’ comes from the fact that ma er and mind are the same. The state of one inﬂuences the state of the other. Indeed one and the other are illusions. They are aspects of the same ﬁeld. Paranormal phenomena are all explainable so why are they still considered ‘mysteries’ or not happening? Once you go down this road of understanding you begin to expand awareness beyond the ﬁve senses and that’s the nightmare for the Cult.




Figure 13: Holograms are not solid, but the best ones appear to be. Figure 14: How holograms are created by capturing a waveform version of the subject image.


Holographic ‘solidity’ Our reality is not solid, it is holographic. We are now well aware of holograms which are widely used today. Two-dimensional information is decoded into a three-dimensional reality that is not solid although can very much appear to be (Fig 13). Holograms are created with a laser divided into two parts. One goes directly onto a holographic photographic print (‘reference beam’) and the other takes a waveform image of the subject (‘working beam’) before being directed onto the print where it ‘collides’ with the other half of the laser (Fig 14). This creates a waveform interference pa ern which contains the waveﬁeld information of whatever is being photographed (Fig 15 overleaf). The process can be likened to dropping pebbles in a pond. Waves generated by each one spread out across the water to collide with the others and create a wave representation of where the stones fell and at what speed, weight and distance. A waveform interference pa ern of a hologram is akin to the waveform information in The Field which the ﬁve senses decode into electrical signals to be decoded by the brain into a holographic illusory ‘physical’ reality. In the same way when a laser (think human a ention) is directed at the waveform interference pa ern a three-dimensional version of the subject is projected into apparently ‘solid’ reality (Fig 16). An amazing trait of holograms reveals more ‘paranormal mysteries’. Information of the whole hologram is encoded in waveform in every part of the interference pa ern by the way they are created. This means that every part of a hologram is a smaller version of the whole. Cut the interference wave-pa ern into four and you won’t get four parts of the image. You get quarter-sized versions of the whole image. The body is a hologram and the same applies. Here we have the basis of acupuncture, reﬂexology and other forms of healing which identify representations of the whole body in all of the parts, hands, feet, ears, everywhere. Skilled palm readers can do what they do because the information of whole body is encoded in the hand. The concept of as above, so below, comes from this.




Figure 15: A waveform interference pattern that holds the information that transforms into a hologram.




Figure 16: Holographic people including ‘Elvis’ holographically inserted to sing a duet with Celine Dion.  The question will be asked of why, if solidity is illusory, we can’t just walk through walls and each other. The resistance is not solid against solid; it is electromagnetic ﬁeld against electromagnetic ﬁeld and we decode this into the experience of solid against solid. We should also not underestimate the power of belief to dictate reality. What you believe is impossible will be. Your belief impacts on your decoding processes and they won’t decode what you think is impossible. What we believe we perceive and what we perceive we experience. ‘Can’t dos’ and ‘impossibles’ are like a ﬁrewall in a computer system that won’t put on the screen what the ﬁrewall blocks. How vital that is to understanding how human experience has been hĳacked. I explain in The Answer, Everything You Need To Know But Have Never Been Told and other books a long list of ‘mysteries’ and ‘paranormal’ phenomena that are not mysterious and perfectly normal once you realise what reality is and how it works. ‘Ghosts’ can be seen to pass through ‘solid’ walls because the walls are not solid and the ghost is a discarnate entity operating on a frequency so diﬀerent to that of the wall that it’s like two radio stations sharing the same space while never interfering with each other. I have seen ghosts do this myself. The apartness of people and objects is also an illusion. Everything is connected by the Field like all sea life is connected by the sea. It’s just that within the limits of our visual reality we only ‘see’ holographic information and not the ﬁeld of information that connects everything and from which the holographic world is made manifest. If you can only see holographic ‘objects’ and not the ﬁeld that connects them they will appear to you as unconnected to each other in the same way that we see the computer while not seeing the Wi-Fi.

What you don’t knowcan hurt you Okay, we return to those ‘two worlds’ of human society and the Cult with its global network of interconnecting secret societies and satanic groups which manipulate through governments, corporations, media, religions, etc. The fundamental diﬀerence between them is knowledge. The idea has been to keep humanity ignorant of the plan for its total enslavement underpinned by a crucial ignorance of reality – who we are and where we are – and how we interact with it. ‘Human’ should be the interaction between our expanded eternal consciousness and the ﬁve-sense body experience. We are meant to be in this world in terms of the ﬁve senses but not of this world in relation to our greater consciousness and perspective. In that state we experience the small picture of the ﬁve senses within the wider context of the big picture of awareness beyond the ﬁve senses. Put another way the ﬁve senses see the dots and expanded awareness connects them into pictures and pa erns that give context to the apparently random and unconnected. Without the context of expanded awareness the ﬁve senses see only apartness and randomness with apparently no meaning. The Cult and its other-dimensional controllers seek to intervene in the frequency realm where ﬁve-sense reality is supposed to connect with expanded reality and to keep the two apart (more on this in the ﬁnal chapter). When that happens ﬁve-sense mental and emotional processes are no longer inﬂuenced by expanded awareness, or the True ‘I’, and instead are driven by the isolated perceptions of the body’s decoding systems. They are in the world and of it. Here we have the human plight and why humanity with its potential for inﬁnite awareness can be so easily manipulatable and descend into such extremes of stupidity.  Once the Cult isolates ﬁve-sense mind from expanded awareness it can then program the mind with perceptions and beliefs by controlling information that the mind receives through the ‘education’ system of the formative years and the media perceptual bombardment and censorship of an entire lifetime. Limit perception and a sense of the possible through limiting knowledge by limiting and skewing information while censoring and discrediting that which could set people free. As the title of another of my books says … And The Truth Shall Set You Free. For this reason the last thing the Cult wants in circulation is the truth about anything – especially the reality of the eternal ‘I’ – and that’s why it is desperate to control information. The Cult knows that information becomes perception which becomes behaviour which, collectively, becomes human society. Cult-controlled and funded mainstream ‘science’ denies the existence of an eternal ‘I’ and seeks to dismiss and trash all evidence to the contrary. Cult-controlled mainstream religion has a version of ‘God’ that is li le more than a system of control and dictatorship that employs threats of damnation in an a erlife to control perceptions and behaviour in the here and now through fear and guilt. Neither is true and it’s the ‘neither’ that the Cult wishes to suppress. This ‘neither’ is that everything is an expression, a point of a ention, within an inﬁnite state of consciousness which is the real meaning of the term ‘God’.  Perceptual obsession with the ‘physical body’ and ﬁve-senses means that ‘God’ becomes personiﬁed as a bearded bloke si ing among the clouds or a raging bully who loves us if we do what ‘he’ wants and condemns us to the ﬁres of hell if we don’t. These are no more than a ‘spiritual’ fairy tales to control and dictate events and behaviour through fear of this ‘God’ which has bizarrely made ‘God- fearing’ in religious circles a state to be desired. I would suggest that fearing anything is not to be encouraged and celebrated, but rather deleted. You can see why ‘God fearing’ is so beneﬁcial to the Cult and its religions when they decide what ‘God’ wants and what ‘God’ demands (the Cult demands) that everyone do. As the great American comedian Bill Hicks said satirising a Christian zealot: ‘I think what God meant to say.’ How much of this inﬁnite awareness (‘God’) that we access is decided by how far we choose to expand our perceptions, self-identity and sense of the possible. The scale of self-identity reﬂects itself in the scale of awareness that we can connect with and are inﬂuenced by – how much knowing and insight we have instead of programmed perception. You cannot expand your awareness into the inﬁnity of possibility when you believe that you are li le me Peter the postman or Mary in marketing and nothing more. I’ll deal with this in the concluding chapter because it’s crucial to how we turnaround current events.

Where the Cult came from When I realised in the early 1990s there was a Cult network behind global events I asked the obvious question: When did it start? I took it back to ancient Rome and Egypt and on to Babylon and Sumer in Mesopotamia, the ‘Land Between Two Rivers’, in what we now call Iraq. The two rivers are the Tigris and Euphrates and this region is of immense historical and other importance to the Cult, as is the land called Israel only 550 miles away by air. There is much more going with deep esoteric meaning across this whole region. It’s not only about ‘wars for oil’. Priceless artefacts from Mesopotamia were stolen or destroyed a er the American and British invasion of Iraq in 2003 justiﬁed by the lies of Boy Bush and Tony Blair (their Cult masters) about non-existent ‘weapons of mass destruction’. Mesopotamia was the location of Sumer (about 5,400BC to 1,750BC), and Babylon (about 2,350BC to 539BC). Sabbatians may have become immensely inﬂuential in the Cult in modern times but they are part of a network that goes back into the mists of history. Sumer is said by historians to be the ‘cradle of civilisation’. I disagree. I say it was the re-start of what we call human civilisation a er cataclysmic events symbolised in part as the ‘Great Flood’ destroyed the world that existed before. These fantastic upheavals that I have been describing in detail in the books since the early1990s appear in accounts and legends of ancient cultures across the world and they are supported by geological and biological evidence. Stone tablets found in Iraq detailing the Sumer period say the cataclysms were caused by non- human ‘gods’ they call the Anunnaki. These are described in terms of extraterrestrial visitations in which knowledge supplied by the Anunnaki is said to have been the source of at least one of the world’s oldest writing systems and developments in astronomy, mathematics and architecture that were way ahead of their time. I have covered this subject at length in The Biggest Secret and Children of the Matrix and the same basic ‘Anunnaki’ story can be found in Zulu accounts in South Africa where the late and very great Zulu high shaman Credo Mutwa told me that the Sumerian Anunnaki were known by Zulus as the Chitauri or ‘children of the serpent’. See my six-hour video interview with Credo on this subject entitled The Reptilian Agenda recorded at his then home near Johannesburg in 1999 which you can watch on the Ickonic media platform.  The Cult emerged out of Sumer, Babylon and Egypt (and elsewhere) and established the Roman Empire before expanding with the Romans into northern Europe from where many empires were savagely imposed in the form of Cult-controlled societies all over the world. Mass death and destruction was their calling card. The Cult established its centre of operations in Europe and European Empires were Cult empires which allowed it to expand into a global force. Spanish and Portuguese colonialists headed for Central and South America while the British and French targeted North America. Africa was colonised by Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Italy, and Germany. Some like Britain and France moved in on the Middle East. The British Empire was by far the biggest for a simple reason. By now Britain was the headquarters of the Cult from which it expanded to form Canada, the United States, Australia and New Zealand. The Sun never set on the British Empire such was the scale of its occupation. London remains a global centre for the Cult along with Rome and the Vatican although others have emerged in Israel and China. It is no accident that the ‘virus’ is alleged to have come out of China while Italy was chosen as the means to terrify the Western population into compliance with ‘Covid’ fascism. Nor that Israel has led the world in ‘Covid’ fascism and mass ‘vaccination’.  You would think that I would mention the United States here, but while it has been an important means of imposing the Cult’s will it is less signiﬁcant than would appear and is currently in the process of having what power it does have deleted. The Cult in Europe has mostly loaded the guns for the US to ﬁre. America has been controlled from Europe from the start through Cult operatives in Britain and Europe. The American Revolution was an illusion to make it appear that America was governing itself while very diﬀerent forces were pulling the strings in the form of Cult families such as the Rothschilds through the Rockefellers and other subordinates. The Rockefellers are extremely close to Bill Gates and established both scalpel and drug ‘medicine’ and the World Health Organization. They play a major role in the development and circulation of vaccines through the Rockefeller Foundation on which Bill Gates said his Foundation is based. Why wouldn’t this be the case when the Rockefellers and Gates are on the same team? Cult inﬁltration of human society goes way back into what we call history and has been constantly expanding and centralising power with the goal of establishing a global structure to dictate everything. Look how this has been advanced in great leaps with the ‘Covid’ hoax.

The non-human dimension I researched and observed the comings and goings of Cult operatives through the centuries and even thousands of years as they were born, worked to promote the agenda within the secret society and satanic networks, and then died for others to replace them. Clearly there had to be a coordinating force that spanned this entire period while operatives who would not have seen the end goal in their lifetimes came and went advancing the plan over millennia. I went in search of that coordinating force with the usual support from the extraordinary synchronicity of my life which has been an almost daily experience since 1990. I saw common themes in religious texts and ancient cultures about a non-human force manipulating human society from the hidden. Christianity calls this force Satan, the Devil and demons; Islam refers to the Jinn or Djinn; Zulus have their Chitauri (spelt in other ways in diﬀerent parts of Africa); and the Gnostic people in Egypt in the period around and before 400AD referred to this phenomena as the ‘Archons’, a word meaning rulers in Greek. Central American cultures speak of the ‘Predators’ among other names and the same theme is everywhere. I will use ‘Archons’ as a collective name for all of them. When you see how their nature and behaviour is described all these diﬀerent sources are clearly talking about the same force. Gnostics described the Archons in terms of ‘luminous ﬁre’ while Islam relates the Jinn to ‘smokeless ﬁre’. Some refer to beings in form that could occasionally be seen, but the most common of common theme is that they operate from unseen realms which means almost all existence to the visual processes of humans. I had concluded that this was indeed the foundation of human control and that the Cult was operating within the human frequency band on behalf of this hidden force when I came across the writings of Gnostics which supported my conclusions in the most extraordinary way.  A sealed earthen jar was found in 1945 near the town of Nag Hammadi about 75-80 miles north of Luxor on the banks of the River Nile in Egypt. Inside was a treasure trove of manuscripts and texts le by the Gnostic people some 1,600 years earlier. They included 13 leather-bound papyrus codices (manuscripts) and more than 50 texts wri en in Coptic Egyptian estimated to have been hidden in the jar in the period of 400AD although the source of the information goes back much further. Gnostics oversaw the Great or Royal Library of Alexandria, the fantastic depository of ancient texts detailing advanced knowledge and accounts of human history. The Library was dismantled and destroyed in stages over a long period with the death-blow delivered by the Cult-established Roman Church in the period around 415AD. The Church of Rome was the Church of Babylon relocated as I said earlier. Gnostics were not a race. They were a way of perceiving reality. Whenever they established themselves and their information circulated the terrorists of the Church of Rome would target them for destruction. This happened with the Great Library and with the Gnostic Cathars who were burned to death by the psychopaths a er a long period of oppression at the siege of the Castle of Monségur in southern France in 1244. The Church has always been terriﬁed of Gnostic information which demolishes the oﬃcial Christian narrative although there is much in the Bible that supports the Gnostic view if you read it in another way. To anyone studying the texts of what became known as the Nag Hammadi Library it is clear that great swathes of Christian and Biblical belief has its origin with Gnostics sources going back to Sumer. Gnostic themes have been twisted to manipulate the perceived reality of Bible believers. Biblical texts have been in the open for centuries where they could be changed while Gnostic documents found at Nag Hammadi were sealed away and untouched for 1,600 years. What you see is what they wrote.

Use your pneuma not your nous


Gnosticism and Gnostic come from ‘gnosis’ which means knowledge, or rather secret knowledge, in the sense of spiritual awareness – knowledge about reality and life itself. The desperation of the Cult’s Church of Rome to destroy the Gnostics can be understood when the knowledge they were circulating was the last thing the Cult wanted the population to know. Sixteen hundred years later the same Cult is working hard to undermine and silence me for the same reason. The dynamic between knowledge and ignorance is a constant. ‘Time’ appears to move on, but essential themes remain the same. We are told to ‘use your nous’, a Gnostic word for head/brain/intelligence. They said, however, that spiritual awakening or ‘salvation’ could only be secured by expanding awareness beyond what they called nous and into pneuma or Inﬁnite Self. Obviously as I read these texts the parallels with what I have been saying since 1990 were fascinating to me. There is a universal truth that spans human history and in that case why wouldn’t we be talking the same language 16 centuries apart? When you free yourself from the perception program of the ﬁve senses and explore expanded realms of consciousness you are going to connect with the same information no ma er what the perceived ‘era’ within a manufactured timeline of a single and tiny range of manipulated frequency. Humans working with ‘smart’ technology or knocking rocks together in caves is only a timeline appearing to operate within the human frequency band. Expanded awareness and the knowledge it holds have always been there whether the era be Stone Age or computer age. We can only access that knowledge by opening ourselves to its frequency which the ﬁve-sense prison cell is designed to stop us doing. Gates, Fauci, Whi y, Vallance, Zuckerberg, Brin, Page, Wojcicki, Bezos, and all the others behind the ‘Covid’ hoax clearly have a long wait before their range of frequency can make that connection given that an open heart is crucial to that as we shall see. Instead of accessing knowledge directly through expanded awareness it is given to Cult operatives by the secret society networks of the Cult where it has been passed on over thousands of years outside the public arena. Expanded realms of consciousness is where great artists, composers and writers ﬁnd their inspiration and where truth awaits anyone open enough to connect with it. We need to go there fast.

Archon hijack A ﬁ h of the Nag Hammadi texts describe the existence and manipulation of the Archons led by a ‘Chief Archon’ they call ‘Yaldabaoth’, or the ‘Demiurge’, and this is the Christian ‘Devil’, ‘Satan’, ‘Lucifer’, and his demons. Archons in Biblical symbolism are the ‘fallen ones’ which are also referred to as fallen angels a er the angels expelled from heaven according to the Abrahamic religions of Judaism, Christianity and Islam. These angels are claimed to tempt humans to ‘sin’ ongoing and you will see how accurate that symbolism is during the rest of the book. The theme of ‘original sin’ is related to the ‘Fall’ when Adam and Eve were ‘tempted by the serpent’ and fell from a state of innocence and ‘obedience’ (connection) with God into a state of disobedience (disconnection). The Fall is said to have brought sin into the world and corrupted everything including human nature. Yaldabaoth, the ‘Lord Archon’, is described by Gnostics as a ‘counterfeit spirit’, ‘The Blind One’, ‘The Blind God’, and ‘The Foolish One’. The Jewish name for Yaldabaoth in Talmudic writings is Samael which translates as ‘Poison of God’, or ‘Blindness of God’. You see the parallels. Yaldabaoth in Islamic belief is the Muslim Jinn devil known as Shaytan – Shaytan is Satan as the same themes are found all over the world in every religion and culture. The ‘Lord God’ of the Old Testament is the ‘Lord Archon’ of Gnostic manuscripts and that’s why he’s such a bloodthirsty bastard. Satan is known by Christians as ‘the Demon of Demons’ and Gnostics called Yaldabaoth the ‘Archon of Archons’. Both are known as ‘The Deceiver’. We are talking about the same ‘bloke’ for sure and these common themes using diﬀerent names, storylines and symbolism tell a common tale of the human plight.  Archons are referred to in Nag Hammadi documents as mind parasites, inverters, guards, gatekeepers, detainers, judges, pitiless ones and deceivers. The ‘Covid’ hoax alone is a glaring example of all these things. The Biblical ‘God’ is so diﬀerent in the Old and New Testaments because they are not describing the same phenomenon. The vindictive, angry, hate-ﬁlled, ‘God’ of the Old Testament, known as Yahweh, is Yaldabaoth who is depicted in Cult-dictated popular culture as the ‘Dark Lord’, ‘Lord of Time’, Lord (Darth) Vader and Dormammu, the evil ruler of the ‘Dark Dimension’ trying to take over the ‘Earth Dimension’ in the Marvel comic movie, Dr Strange. Yaldabaoth is both the Old Testament ‘god’ and the Biblical ‘Satan’. Gnostics referred to Yaldabaoth as the ‘Great Architect of the Universe’and the Cult-controlled Freemason network calls their god ‘the ‘Great Architect of the Universe’ (also Grand Architect). The ‘Great Architect’ Yaldabaoth is symbolised by the Cult as the all- seeing eye at the top of the pyramid on the Great Seal of the United States and the dollar bill. Archon is encoded in arch-itect as it is in arch-angels and arch-bishops. All religions have the theme of a force for good and force for evil in some sort of spiritual war and there is a reason for that – the theme is true. The Cult and its non-human masters are quite happy for this to circulate. They present themselves as the force for good ﬁghting evil when they are really the force of evil (absence of love). The whole foundation of Cult modus operandi is inversion. They promote themselves as a force for good and anyone challenging them in pursuit of peace, love, fairness, truth and justice is condemned as a satanic force for evil. This has been the game plan throughout history whether the Church of Rome inquisitions of non-believers or ‘conspiracy theorists’ and ‘anti-vaxxers’ of today. The technique is the same whatever the timeline era.

Yaldabaoth is revolting (true) Yaldabaoth and the Archons are said to have revolted against God with Yaldabaoth claiming to be God – the All That Is. The Old Testament ‘God’ (Yaldabaoth) demanded to be worshipped as such: ‘ I am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside me’ (Isaiah 45:5). I have quoted in other books a man who said he was the unoﬃcial son of the late Baron Philippe de Rothschild of the Mouton-Rothschild wine producing estates in France who died in 1988 and he told me about the Rothschild ‘revolt from God’. The man said he was given the name Phillip Eugene de Rothschild and we shared long correspondence many years ago while he was living under another identity. He said that he was conceived through ‘occult incest’ which (within the Cult) was ‘normal and to be admired’. ‘Phillip’ told me about his experience a ending satanic rituals with rich and famous people whom he names and you can see them and the wider background to Cult Satanism in my other books starting with The Biggest Secret. Cult rituals are interactions with Archontic ‘gods’. ‘Phillip’ described Baron Philippe de Rothschild as ‘a master Satanist and hater of God’ and he used the same term ‘revolt from God’ associated with Yaldabaoth/Satan/Lucifer/the Devil in describing the Sabbatian Rothschild dynasty. ‘I played a key role in my family’s revolt from God’, he said. That role was to inﬁltrate in classic Sabbatian style the Christian Church, but eventually he escaped the mind-prison to live another life. The Cult has been targeting religion in a plan to make worship of the Archons the global one-world religion. Inﬁltration of Satanism into modern ‘culture’, especially among the young, through music videos, stage shows and other means, is all part of this.  Nag Hammadi texts describe Yaldabaoth and the Archons in their prime form as energy – consciousness – and say they can take form if they choose in the same way that consciousness takes form as a human. Yaldabaoth is called ‘formless’ and represents a deeply inverted, distorted and chaotic state of consciousness which seeks to a ached to humans and turn them into a likeness of itself in an a empt at assimilation. For that to happen it has to manipulate humans into low frequency mental and emotional states that match its own. Archons can certainly appear in human form and this is the origin of the psychopathic personality. The energetic distortion Gnostics called Yaldabaoth is psychopathy. When psychopathic Archons take human form that human will be a psychopath as an expression of Yaldabaoth consciousness. Cult psychopaths are Archons in human form. The principle is the same as that portrayed in the 2009 Avatar movie when the American military travelled to a ﬁctional Earth-like moon called Pandora in the Alpha Centauri star system to inﬁltrate a society of blue people, or Na’vi, by hiding within bodies that looked like the Na’vi. Archons posing as humans have a particular hybrid information ﬁeld, part human, part Archon, (the ancient ‘demigods’) which processes information in a way that manifests behaviour to match their psychopathic evil, lack of empathy and compassion, and stops them being inﬂuenced by the empathy, compassion and love that a fully-human information ﬁeld is capable of expressing. Cult bloodlines interbreed, be they royalty or dark suits, for this reason and you have their obsession with incest. Interbreeding with full-blown humans would dilute the Archontic energy ﬁeld that guarantees psychopathy in its representatives in the human realm.  Gnostic writings say the main non-human forms that Archons take are serpentine (what I have called for decades ‘reptilian’ amid unbounded ridicule from the Archontically-programmed) and what Gnostics describe as ‘an unborn baby or foetus with grey skin and dark, unmoving eyes’. This is an excellent representation of the ET ‘Greys’ of UFO folklore which large numbers of people claim to have seen and been abducted by – Zulu shaman Credo Mutwa among them. I agree with those that believe in extraterrestrial or interdimensional visitations today and for thousands of years past. No wonder with their advanced knowledge and technological capability they were perceived and worshipped as gods for technological and other ‘miracles’ they appeared to perform. Imagine someone arriving in a culture disconnected from the modern world with a smartphone and computer. They would be seen as a ‘god’ capable of ‘miracles’. The Renegade Mind, however, wants to know the source of everything and not only the way that source manifests as human or non-human. In the same way that a Renegade Mind seeks the original source material for the ‘Covid virus’ to see if what is claimed is true. The original source of Archons in form is consciousness – the distorted state of consciousness known to Gnostics as Yaldabaoth.

‘Revolt from God’ is energetic disconnection Where I am going next will make a lot of sense of religious texts and ancient legends relating to ‘Satan’, Lucifer’ and the ‘gods’. Gnostic descriptions sync perfectly with the themes of my own research over the years in how they describe a consciousness distortion seeking to impose itself on human consciousness. I’ve referred to the core of inﬁnite awareness in previous books as Inﬁnite Awareness in Awareness of Itself. By that I mean a level of awareness that knows that it is all awareness and is aware of all awareness. From here comes the frequency of love in its true sense and balance which is what love is on one level – the balance of all forces into a single whole called Oneness and Isness. The more we disconnect from this state of love that many call ‘God’ the constituent parts of that Oneness start to unravel and express themselves as a part and not a whole. They become individualised as intellect, mind, selﬁshness, hatred, envy, desire for power over others, and such like. This is not a problem in the greater scheme in that ‘God’, the All That Is, can experience all these possibilities through diﬀerent expressions of itself including humans. What we as expressions of the whole experience the All That Is experiences. We are the All That Is experiencing itself. As we withdraw from that state of Oneness we disconnect from its inﬂuence and things can get very unpleasant and very stupid. Archontic consciousness is at the extreme end of that. It has so disconnected from the inﬂuence of Oneness that it has become an inversion of unity and love, an inversion of everything, an inversion of life itself. Evil is appropriately live wri en backwards. Archontic consciousness is obsessed with death, an inversion of life, and so its manifestations in Satanism are obsessed with death. They use inverted symbols in their rituals such as the inverted pentagram and cross. Sabbatians as Archontic consciousness incarnate invert Judaism and every other religion and culture they inﬁltrate. They seek disunity and chaos and they fear unity and harmony as they fear love like garlic to a vampire. As a result the Cult, Archons incarnate, act with such evil, psychopathy and lack of empathy and compassion disconnected as they are from the source of love. How could Bill Gates and the rest of the Archontic psychopaths do what they have to human society in the ‘Covid’ era with all the death, suﬀering and destruction involved and have no emotional consequence for the impact on others? Now you know. Why have Zuckerberg, Brin, Page, Wojcicki and company callously censored information warning about the dangers of the ‘vaccine’ while thousands have been dying and having severe, sometimes life- changing reactions? Now you know. Why have Tedros, Fauci, Whi y, Vallance and their like around the world been using case and death ﬁgures they’re aware are fraudulent to justify lockdowns and all the deaths and destroyed lives that have come from that? Now you know. Why did Christian Drosten produce and promote a ‘testing’ protocol that he knew couldn’t test for infectious disease which led to a global human catastrophe. Now you know. The Archontic mind doesn’t give a shit (Fig 17). I personally think that Gates and major Cult insiders are a form of AI cyborg that the Archons want humans to become. Figure 17: Artist Neil Hague’s version of the ‘Covid’ hierarchy.


Human batteries A state of such inversion does have its consequences, however. The level of disconnection from the Source of All means that you withdraw from that source of energetic sustenance and creativity. This means that you have to ﬁnd your own supply of energetic power and it has – us. When the Morpheus character in the ﬁrst Matrix movie held up a ba ery he spoke a profound truth when he said: ‘The Matrix is a computer-generated dream world built to keep us under control in order to change the human being into one of these.’ The statement was true in all respects. We do live in a technologically-generated virtual reality simulation (more very shortly) and we have been manipulated to be an energy source for Archontic consciousness. The Disney-Pixar animated movie Monsters, Inc. in 2001 symbolised the dynamic when monsters in their world had no energy source and they would enter the human world to terrify children in their beds, catch the child’s scream, terror (low-vibrational frequencies), and take that energy back to power the monster world. The lead character you might remember was a single giant eye and the symbolism of the Cult’s all-seeing eye was obvious. Every thought and emotion is broadcast as a frequency unique to that thought and emotion. Feelings of love and joy, empathy and compassion, are high, quick, frequencies while fear, depression, anxiety, suﬀering and hate are low, slow, dense frequencies. Which kind do you think Archontic consciousness can connect with and absorb? In such a low and dense frequency state there’s no way it can connect with the energy of love and joy. Archons can only feed oﬀ energy compatible with their own frequency and they and their Cult agents want to delete the human world of love and joy and manipulate the transmission of low vibrational frequencies through low-vibrational human mental and emotional states. We are their energy source. Wars are energetic banquets to the Archons – a world war even more so – and think how much low-frequency mental and emotional energy has been generated from the consequences for humanity of the ‘Covid’ hoax orchestrated by Archons incarnate like Gates.  The ancient practice of human sacriﬁce ‘to the gods’, continued in secret today by the Cult, is based on the same principle. ‘The gods’ are Archontic consciousness in diﬀerent forms and the sacriﬁce is induced into a state of intense terror to generate the energy the Archontic frequency can absorb. Incarnate Archons in the ritual drink the blood which contains an adrenaline they crave which ﬂoods into the bloodstream when people are terrorised. Most of the sacriﬁces, ancient and modern, are children and the theme of ‘sacriﬁcing young virgins to the gods’ is just code for children. They have a particular pre-puberty energy that Archons want more than anything and the energy of the young in general is their target. The California Department of Education wants students to chant the names of Aztec gods (Archontic gods) once worshipped in human sacriﬁce rituals in a curriculum designed to encourage them to ‘challenge racist, bigoted, discriminatory, imperialist/colonial beliefs’, join ‘social movements that struggle for social justice’, and ‘build new possibilities for a post-racist, post-systemic racism society’. It’s the usual Woke crap that inverts racism and calls it anti- racism. In this case solidarity with ‘indigenous tribes’ is being used as an excuse to chant the names of ‘gods’ to which people were sacriﬁced (and still are in secret). What an example of Woke’s inability to see beyond black and white, us and them, They condemn the colonisation of these tribal cultures by Europeans (quite right), but those cultures sacriﬁcing people including children to their ‘gods’, and mass murdering untold numbers as the Aztecs did, is just ﬁne. One chant is to the Aztec god Tezcatlipoca who had a man sacriﬁced to him in the 5th month of the Aztec calendar. His heart was cut out and he was eaten. Oh, that’s okay then. Come on children … a er three … Other sacriﬁcial ‘gods’ for the young to chant their allegiance include Quetzalcoatl, Huitzilopochtli and Xipe Totec. The curriculum says that ‘chants, aﬃrmations, and energizers can be used to bring the class together, build unity around ethnic studies principles and values, and to reinvigorate the class following a lesson that may be emotionally taxing or even when student engagement may appear to be low’. Well, that’s the cover story, anyway. Chanting and mantras are the repetition of a particular frequency generated from the vocal cords and chanting the names of these Archontic ‘gods’ tunes you into their frequency. That is the last thing you want when it allows for energetic synchronisation, a achment and perceptual inﬂuence. Initiates chant the names of their ‘Gods’ in their rituals for this very reason.

Vampires of the Woke Paedophilia is another way that Archons absorb the energy of children. Paedophiles possessed by Archontic consciousness are used as the conduit during sexual abuse for discarnate Archons to vampire the energy of the young they desire so much. Stupendous numbers of children disappear every year never to be seen again although you would never know from the media. Imagine how much low-vibrational energy has been generated by children during the ‘Covid’ hoax when so many have become depressed and psychologically destroyed to the point of killing themselves. Shocking numbers of children are now taken by the state from loving parents to be handed to others. I can tell you from long experience of researching this since 1996 that many end up with paedophiles and assets of the Cult through corrupt and Cult-owned social services which in the reframing era has hired many psychopaths and emotionless automatons to do the job. Children are even stolen to order using spurious reasons to take them by the corrupt and secret (because they’re corrupt) ‘family courts’. I have wri en in detail in other books, starting with The Biggest Secret in 1997, about the ubiquitous connections between the political, corporate, government, intelligence and military elites (Cult operatives) and Satanism and paedophilia. If you go deep enough both networks have an interlocking leadership. The Woke mentality has been developed by the Cult for many reasons: To promote almost every aspect of its agenda; to hĳack the traditional political le and turn it fascist; to divide and rule; and to target agenda pushbackers. But there are other reasons which relate to what I am describing here. How many happy and joyful Wokers do you ever see especially at the extreme end? They are a mental and psychological mess consumed by emotional stress and constantly emotionally cocked for the next explosion of indignation at someone referring to a female as a female. They are walking, talking, ba eries as Morpheus might say emi ing frequencies which both enslave them in low-vibrational bubbles of perceptual limitation and feed the Archons. Add to this the hatred claimed to be love; fascism claimed to ‘anti-fascism’, racism claimed to be ‘anti-racism’; exclusion claimed to inclusion; and the abuse-ﬁlled Internet trolling. You have a purpose-built Archontic energy system with not a wind turbine in sight and all founded on Archontic inversion. We have whole generations now manipulated to serve the Archons with their actions and energy. They will be doing so their entire adult lives unless they snap out of their Archon-induced trance. Is it really a surprise that Cult billionaires and corporations put so much money their way? Where is the energy of joy and laughter, including laughing at yourself which is conﬁrmation of your own emotional security? Mark Twain said: ‘The human race has one really eﬀective weapon, and that is laughter.‘ We must use it all the time. Woke has destroyed comedy because it has no humour, no joy, sense of irony, or self-deprecation. Its energy is dense and intense. Mmmmm, lunch says the Archontic frequency. Rudolf Steiner (1861-1925) was the Austrian philosopher and famous esoteric thinker who established Waldorf education or Steiner schools to treat children like unique expressions of consciousness and not minds to be programmed with the perceptions determined by authority. I’d been writing about this energy vampiring for decades when I was sent in 2016 a quote by Steiner. He was spot on:

There are beings in the spiritual realms for whom anxiety and fear emanating from human beings offer welcome food. When humans have no anxiety and fear, then these creatures starve. If fear and anxiety radiates from people and they break out in panic, then these creatures find welcome nutrition and they become more and more powerful. These beings are hostile towards humanity. Everything that feeds on negative feelings, on anxiety, fear and superstition, despair or doubt, are in reality hostile forces in super-sensible worlds, launching cruel attacks on human beings, while they are being fed ... These are exactly the feelings that belong to contemporary culture and materialism; because it estranges people from the spiritual world, it is especially suited to evoke hopelessness and fear of the unknown in people, thereby calling up the above mentioned hostile forces against them.


Pause for a moment from this perspective and reﬂect on what has happened in the world since the start of 2020. Not only will pennies drop, but billion dollar bills. We see the same theme from Don Juan Matus, a Yaqui Indian shaman in Mexico and the information source for Peruvian-born writer, Carlos Castaneda, who wrote a series of books from the 1960s to 1990s. Don Juan described the force manipulating human society and his name for the Archons was the predator:

We have a predator that came from the depths of the cosmos and took over the rule of our lives. Human beings are its prisoners. The predator is our lord and master. It has rendered us docile, helpless. If we want to protest, it suppresses our protest. If we want to act independently, it demands that we don’t do so ... indeed we are held prisoner!

They took us over because we are food to them, and they squeeze us mercilessly because we are their sustenance. Just as we rear chickens in coops, the predators rear us in human coops, humaneros. Therefore, their food is always available to them.

Different cultures, different eras, same recurring theme.


The ‘ennoia’ dilemma Nag Hammadi Gnostic manuscripts say that Archon consciousness has no ‘ennoia’. This is directly translated as ‘intentionality’, but I’ll use the term ‘creative imagination’. The All That Is in awareness of itself is the source of all creativity – all possibility – and the more disconnected you are from that source the more you are subsequently denied ‘creative imagination’. Given that Archon consciousness is almost entirely disconnected it severely lacks creativity and has to rely on far more mechanical processes of thought and exploit the creative potential of those that do have ‘ennoia’. You can see cases of this throughout human society. Archon consciousness almost entirely dominates the global banking system and if we study how that system works you will appreciate what I mean. Banks manifest ‘money’ out of nothing by issuing lines of ‘credit’ which is ‘money’ that has never, does not, and will never exist except in theory. It’s a conﬁdence trick. If you think ‘credit’ ﬁgures-on-a-screen ‘money’ is worth anything you accept it as payment. If you don’t then the whole system collapses through lack of conﬁdence in the value of that ‘money’. Archontic bankers with no ‘ennoia’ are ‘lending’ ‘money’ that doesn’t exist to humans that do have creativity – those that have the inspired ideas and create businesses and products. Archon banking feeds oﬀ human creativity which it controls through ‘money’ creation and debt. Humans have the creativity and Archons exploit that for their own beneﬁt and control while having none themselves. Archon Internet platforms like Facebook claim joint copyright of everything that creative users post and while Archontic minds like Zuckerberg may oﬃcially head that company it will be human creatives on the staﬀ that provide the creative inspiration. When you have limitless ‘money’ you can then buy other companies established by creative humans. Witness the acquisition record of Facebook, Google and their like. Survey the Archon-controlled music industry and you see non-creative dark suit executives making their fortune from the human creativity of their artists. The cases are endless. Research the history of people like Gates and Zuckerberg and how their empires were built on exploiting the creativity of others. Archon minds cannot create out of nothing, but they are skilled (because they have to be) in what Gnostic texts call ‘countermimicry’. They can imitate, but not innovate. Sabbatians trawl the creativity of others through backdoors they install in computer systems through their cybersecurity systems. Archon-controlled China is globally infamous for stealing intellectual property and I remember how Hong Kong, now part of China, became notorious for making counterfeit copies of the creativity of others – ‘countermimicry’. With the now pervasive and all-seeing surveillance systems able to inﬁltrate any computer you can appreciate the potential for Archons to vampire the creativity of humans. Author John Lamb Lash wrote in his book about the Nag Hammadi texts, Not In His Image:

Although they cannot originate anything, because they lack the divine factor of ennoia (intentionality), Archons can imitate with a vengeance. Their expertise is simulation (HAL, virtual reality). The Demiurge [Yaldabaoth] fashions a heaven world copied from the fractal patterns [of the original] ... His construction is celestial kitsch, like the fake Italianate villa of a Mafia don complete with militant angels to guard every portal.


This brings us to something that I have been speaking about since the turn of the millennium. Our reality is a simulation; a virtual reality that we think is real. No, I’m not kidding. Human reality? Well, virtually I had pondered for years about whether our reality is ‘real’ or some kind of construct. I remembered being immensely aﬀected on a visit as a small child in the late 1950s to the then newly-opened Planetarium on the Marylebone Road in London which is now closed and part of the adjacent Madame Tussauds wax museum. It was in the middle of the day, but when the lights went out there was the night sky projected in the Planetarium’s domed ceiling and it appeared to be so real. The experience never le me and I didn’t know why until around the turn of the millennium when I became certain that our ‘night sky’ and entire reality is a projection, a virtual reality, akin to the illusory world portrayed in the Matrix movies. I looked at the sky one day in this period and it appeared to me like the domed roof of the Planetarium. The release of the ﬁrst Matrix movie in 1999 also provided a synchronistic and perfect visual representation of where my mind had been going for a long time. I hadn’t come across the Gnostic Nag Hammadi texts then. When I did years later the correlation was once again astounding. As I read Gnostic accounts from 1,600 years and more earlier it was clear that they were describing the same simulation phenomenon. They tell how the Yaldabaoth ‘Demiurge’ and Archons created a ‘bad copy’ of original reality to rule over all that were captured by its illusions and the body was a prison to trap consciousness in the ‘bad copy’ fake reality. Read how Gnostics describe the ‘bad copy’ and update that to current times and they are referring to what we would call today a virtual reality simulation.  Author John Lamb Lash said ‘the Demiurge fashions a heaven world copied from the fractal pa erns’ of the original through expertise in ‘HAL’ or virtual reality simulation. Fractal pa erns are part of the energetic information construct of our reality, a sort of blueprint. If these pa erns were copied in computer terms it would indeed give you a copy of a ‘natural’ reality in a non-natural frequency and digital form. The principle is the same as making a copy of a website. The original website still exists, but now you can change the copy version to make it whatever you like and it can become very diﬀerent to the original website. Archons have done this with our reality, a synthetic copy of prime reality that still exists beyond the frequency walls of the simulation. Trapped within the illusions of this synthetic Matrix, however, were and are human consciousness and other expressions of prime reality and this is why the Archons via the Cult are seeking to make the human body synthetic and give us synthetic AI minds to complete the job of turning the entire reality synthetic including what we perceive to be the natural world. To quote Kurzweil: ‘Nanobots will infuse all the ma er around us with information. Rocks, trees, everything will become these intelligent creatures.’ Yes, synthetic ‘creatures’ just as ‘Covid’ and other genetically-manipulating ‘vaccines’ are designed to make the human body synthetic. From this perspective it is obvious why Archons and their Cult are so desperate to infuse synthetic material into every human with their ‘Covid’ scam.

Let there be (electromagnetic) light Yaldabaoth, the force that created the simulation, or Matrix, makes sense of the Gnostic reference to ‘The Great Architect’ and its use by Cult Freemasonry as the name of its deity. The designer of the Matrix in the movies is called ‘The Architect’ and that trilogy is jam-packed with symbolism relating to these subjects. I have contended for years that the angry Old Testament God (Yaldabaoth) is the ‘God’ being symbolically ‘quoted’ in the opening of Genesis as ‘creating the world’. This is not the creation of prime reality – it’s the creation of the simulation. The Genesis ‘God’ says: ‘Let there be Light: and there was light.’ But what is this ‘Light’? I have said for decades that the speed of light (186,000 miles per second) is not the fastest speed possible as claimed by mainstream science and is in fact the frequency walls or outer limits of the Matrix. You can’t have a fastest or slowest anything within all possibility when everything is possible. The human body is encoded to operate within the speed of light or within the simulation and thus we see only the tiny frequency band of visible light. Near-death experiencers who perceive reality outside the body during temporary ‘death’ describe a very diﬀerent form of light and this is supported by the Nag Hammadi texts. Prime reality beyond the simulation (‘Upper Aeons’ to the Gnostics) is described as a realm of incredible beauty, bliss, love and harmony – a realm of ‘watery light’ that is so powerful ‘there are no shadows’. Our false reality of Archon control, which Gnostics call the ‘Lower Aeons’, is depicted as a realm with a diﬀerent kind of ‘light’ and described in terms of chaos, ‘Hell’, ‘the Abyss’ and ‘Outer Darkness’, where trapped souls are tormented and manipulated by demons (relate that to the ‘Covid’ hoax alone). The watery light theme can be found in near-death accounts and it is not the same as simulation ‘light’ which is electromagnetic or radiation light within the speed of light – the ‘Lower Aeons’. Simulation ‘light’ is the ‘luminous ﬁre’ associated by Gnostics with the Archons. The Bible refers to Yaldabaoth as ‘that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world’ (Revelation 12:9). I think that making a simulated copy of prime reality (‘countermimicry’) and changing it dramatically while all the time manipulating humanity to believe it to be real could probably meet the criteria of deceiving the whole world. Then we come to the Cult god Lucifer – the Light Bringer. Lucifer is symbolic of Yaldabaoth, the bringer of radiation light that forms the bad copy simulation within the speed of light. ‘He’ is symbolised by the lighted torch held by the Statue of Liberty and in the name ‘Illuminati’. Sabbatian-Frankism declares that Lucifer is the true god and Lucifer is the real god of Freemasonry honoured as their ‘Great or Grand Architect of the Universe’ (simulation).  I would emphasise, too, the way Archontic technologically- generated luminous ﬁre of radiation has deluged our environment since I was a kid in the 1950s and changed the nature of The Field with which we constantly interact. Through that interaction technological radiation is changing us. The Smart Grid is designed to operate with immense levels of communication power with 5G expanding across the world and 6G, 7G, in the process of development. Radiation is the simulation and the Archontic manipulation system. Why wouldn’t the Archon Cult wish to unleash radiation upon us to an ever-greater extreme to form Kurzweil’s ‘cloud’? The plan for a synthetic human is related to the need to cope with levels of radiation beyond even anything we’ve seen so far. Biological humans would not survive the scale of radiation they have in their script. The Smart Grid is a technological sub-reality within the technological simulation to further disconnect ﬁve-sense perception from expanded consciousness. It’s a technological prison of the mind.

Infusing the ‘spirit of darkness’ A recurring theme in religion and native cultures is the manipulation of human genetics by a non-human force and most famously recorded as the biblical ‘sons of god’ (the gods plural in the original) who interbred with the daughters of men. The Nag Hammadi Apocryphon of John tells the same story this way:

He [Yaldabaoth] sent his angels [Archons/demons] to the daughters of men, that they might take some of them for themselves and raise offspring for their enjoyment. And at first they did not succeed. When they had no success, they gathered together again and they made a plan together ... And the angels changed themselves in their likeness into the likeness of their mates, filling them with the spirit of darkness, which they had mixed for them, and with evil ... And they took women and begot children out of the darkness according to the likeness of their spirit.


 Possession when a discarnate entity takes over a human body is an age-old theme and continues today. It’s very real and I’ve seen it. Satanic and secret society rituals can create an energetic environment in which entities can a ach to initiates and I’ve heard many stories of how people have changed their personality a er being initiated even into lower levels of the Freemasons. I have been inside three Freemasonic temples, one at a public open day and two by just walking in when there was no one around to stop me. They were in Ryde, the town where I live, Birmingham, England, when I was with a group, and Boston, Massachuse s. They all felt the same energetically – dark, dense, low-vibrational and sinister. Demonic a achment can happen while the initiate has no idea what is going on. To them it’s just a ritual to get in the Masons and do a bit of good business. In the far more extreme rituals of Satanism human possession is even more powerful and they are designed to make possession possible. The hierarchy of the Cult is dictated by the power and perceived status of the possessing Archon. In this way the Archon hierarchy becomes the Cult hierarchy. Once the entity has a ached it can inﬂuence perception and behaviour and if it a aches to the extreme then so much of its energy (information) infuses into the body information ﬁeld that the hologram starts to reﬂect the nature of the possessing entity. This is the Exorcist movie type of possession when facial features change and it’s known as shapeshi ing. Islam’s Jinn are said to be invisible tricksters who change shape, ‘whisper’, confuse and take human form. These are all traits of the Archons and other versions of the same phenomenon. Extreme possession could certainty infuse the ‘spirit of darkness’ into a partner during sex as the Nag Hammadi texts appear to describe. Such an infusion can change genetics which is also energetic information. Human genetics is information and the ‘spirit of darkness’ is information. Mix one with the other and change must happen. Islam has the concept of a ‘Jinn baby’ through possession of the mother and by Jinn taking human form. There are many ways that human genetics can be changed and remember that Archons have been aware all along of advanced techniques to do this. What is being done in human society today – and far more – was known about by Archons at the time of the ‘fallen ones’ and their other versions described in religions and cultures.  Archons and their human-world Cult are obsessed with genetics as we see today and they know this dictates how information is processed into perceived reality during a human life. They needed to produce a human form that would decode the simulation and this is symbolically known as ‘Adam and Eve’ who le the ‘garden’ (prime reality) and ‘fell’ into Matrix reality. The simulation is not a ‘physical’ construct (there is no ‘physical’); it is a source of information. Think Wi-Fi again. The simulation is an energetic ﬁeld encoded with information and body-brain systems are designed to decode that information encoded in wave or frequency form which is transmi ed to the brain as electrical signals. These are decoded by the brain to construct our sense of reality – an illusory ‘physical’ world that only exists in the brain or the mind. Virtual reality games mimic this process using the same sensory decoding system. Information is fed to the senses to decode a virtual reality that can appear so real, but isn’t (Figs 18 and 19). Some scientists believe – and I agree with them – that what we perceive as ‘physical’ reality only exists when we are looking or observing. The act of perception or focus triggers the decoding systems which turn waveform information into holographic reality. When we are not observing something our reality reverts from a holographic state to a waveform state. This relates to the same principle as a falling tree not making a noise unless someone is there to hear it or decode it. The concept makes sense from the simulation perspective. A computer is not decoding all the information in a Wi-Fi ﬁeld all the time and only decodes or brings into reality on the screen that part of Wi-Fi that it’s decoding – focusing upon – at that moment.




Figure 18: Virtual reality technology ‘hacks’ into the body’s five-sense decoding system.




Figure 19: The result can be experienced as very ‘real’. Interestingly, Professor Donald Hoﬀman at the Department of Cognitive Sciences at the University of California, Irvine, says that our experienced reality is like a computer interface that shows us only the level with which we interact while hiding all that exists beyond it: ‘Evolution shaped us with a user interface that hides the truth. Nothing that we see is the truth – the very language of space and time and objects is the wrong language to describe reality.’ He is correct in what he says on so many levels. Space and time are not a universal reality. They are a phenomenon of decoded simulation reality as part of the process of enslaving our sense of reality. Near- death experiencers report again and again how space and time did not exist as we perceive them once they were free of the body – body decoding systems. You can appreciate from this why Archons and their Cult are so desperate to entrap human a ention in the ﬁve senses where we are in the Matrix and of the Matrix. Opening your mind to expanded states of awareness takes you beyond the information conﬁnes of the simulation and you become aware of knowledge and insights denied to you before. This is what we call ‘awakening’ – awakening from the Matrix – and in the ﬁnal chapter I will relate this to current events.

Where are the ‘aliens’? A simulation would explain the so-called ‘Fermi Paradox’ named a er Italian physicist Enrico Fermi (1901-1954) who created the ﬁrst nuclear reactor. He considered the question of why there is such a lack of extraterrestrial activity when there are so many stars and planets in an apparently vast universe; but what if the night sky that we see, or think we do, is a simulated projection as I say? If you control the simulation and your aim is to hold humanity fast in essential ignorance would you want other forms of life including advanced life coming and going sharing information with humanity? Or would you want them to believe they were isolated and apparently alone? Themes of human isolation and apartness are common whether they be the perception of a lifeless universe or the fascist isolation laws of the ‘Covid’ era. Paradoxically the very existence of a simulation means that we are not alone when some force had to construct it. My view is that experiences that people have reported all over the world for centuries with Reptilians and Grey entities are Archon phenomena as Nag Hammadi texts describe; and that benevolent ‘alien’ interactions are non-human groups that come in and out of the simulation by overcoming Archon a empts to keep them out. It should be highlighted, too, that Reptilians and Greys are obsessed with genetics and technology as related by cultural accounts and those who say they have been abducted by them. Technology is their way of overcoming some of the limitations in their creative potential and our technology-driven and controlled human society of today is archetypical Archon- Reptilian-Grey modus operandi. Technocracy is really Archontocracy. The Universe does not have to be as big as it appears with a simulation. There is no space or distance only information decoded into holographic reality. What we call ‘space’ is only the absence of holographic ‘objects’ and that ‘space’ is The Field of energetic information which connects everything into a single whole. The same applies with the artiﬁcially-generated information ﬁeld of the simulation. The Universe is not big or small as a physical reality. It is decoded information, that’s all, and its perceived size is decided by the way the simulation is encoded to make it appear. The entire night sky as we perceive it only exists in our brain and so where are those ‘millions of light years’? The ‘stars’ on the ceiling of the Planetarium looked a vast distance away.  There’s another point to mention about ‘aliens’. I have been highlighting since the 1990s the plan to stage a fake ‘alien invasion’ to justify the centralisation of global power and a world military. Nazi scientist Werner von Braun, who was taken to America by Operation Paperclip a er World War Two to help found NASA, told his American assistant Dr Carol Rosin about the Cult agenda when he knew he was dying in 1977. Rosin said that he told her about a sequence that would lead to total human control by a one-world government. This included threats from terrorism, rogue nations, meteors and asteroids before ﬁnally an ‘alien invasion’. All of these things, von Braun said, would be bogus and what I would refer to as a No-Problem-Reaction-Solution. Keep this in mind when ‘the aliens are coming’ is the new mantra. The aliens are not coming – they are already here and they have inﬁltrated human society while looking human. French-Canadian investigative journalist Serge Monast said in 1994 that he had uncovered a NASA/military operation called Project Blue Beam which ﬁts with what Werner von Braun predicted. Monast died of a ‘heart a ack’ in 1996 the day a er he was arrested and spent a night in prison. He was 51. He said Blue Beam was a plan to stage an alien invasion that would include religious ﬁgures beamed holographically into the sky as part of a global manipulation to usher in a ‘new age’ of worshipping what I would say is the Cult ‘god’ Yaldabaoth in a one-world religion. Fake holographic asteroids are also said to be part of the plan which again syncs with von Braun. How could you stage an illusory threat from asteroids unless they were holographic inserts? This is pre y straightforward given the advanced technology outside the public arena and the fact that our ‘physical’ reality is holographic anyway. Information ﬁelds would be projected and we would decode them into the illusion of a ‘physical’ asteroid. If they can sell a global ‘pandemic’ with a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist what will humans not believe if government and media tell them?  All this is particularly relevant as I write with the Pentagon planning to release in June, 2021, information about ‘UFO sightings’. I have been following the UFO story since the early 1990s and the common theme throughout has been government and military denials and cover up. More recently, however, the Pentagon has suddenly become more talkative and apparently open with Air Force pilot radar images released of unexplained cra moving and changing direction at speeds well beyond anything believed possible with human technology. Then, in March, 2021, former Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliﬀe said a Pentagon report months later in June would reveal a great deal of information about UFO sightings unknown to the public. He said the report would have ‘massive implications’. The order to do this was included bizarrely in a $2.3 trillion ‘coronavirus’ relief and government funding bill passed by the Trump administration at the end of 2020. I would add some serious notes of caution here. I have been pointing out since the 1990s that the US military and intelligence networks have long had cra – ‘ﬂying saucers’ or anti-gravity cra – which any observer would take to be extraterrestrial in origin. Keeping this knowledge from the public allows cra ﬂown by humans to be perceived as alien visitations. I am not saying that ‘aliens’ do not exist. I would be the last one to say that, but we have to be streetwise here. President Ronald Reagan told the UN General Assembly in 1987: ‘I occasionally think how quickly our diﬀerences worldwide would vanish if we were facing an alien threat from outside this world.’ That’s the idea. Unite against a common ‘enemy’ with a common purpose behind your ‘saviour force’ (the Cult) as this age-old technique of mass manipulation goes global.

Science moves this way … I could ﬁnd only one other person who was discussing the simulation hypothesis publicly when I concluded it was real. This was Nick Bostrom, a Swedish-born philosopher at the University of Oxford, who has explored for many years the possibility that human reality is a computer simulation although his version and mine are not the same. Today the simulation and holographic reality hypothesis have increasingly entered the scientiﬁc mainstream. Well, the more open-minded mainstream, that is. Here are a few of the ever-gathering examples. American nuclear physicist Silas Beane led a team of physicists at the University of Bonn in Germany pursuing the question of whether we live in a simulation. They concluded that we probably do and it was likely based on a la ice of cubes. They found that cosmic rays align with that speciﬁc pa ern. The team highlighted the Greisen–Zatsepin–Kuzmin (GZK) limit which refers to cosmic ray particle interaction with cosmic background radiation that creates an apparent boundary for cosmic ray particles. They say in a paper entitled ‘Constraints on the Universe as a Numerical Simulation’ that this ‘pa ern of constraint’ is exactly what you would ﬁnd with a computer simulation. They also made the point that a simulation would create its own ‘laws of physics’ that would limit possibility. I’ve been making the same point for decades that the perceived laws of physics relate only to this reality, or what I would later call the simulation. When designers write codes to create computer and virtual reality games they are the equivalent of the laws of physics for that game. Players interact within the limitations laid out by the coding. In the same way those who wrote the codes for the simulation decided the laws of physics that would apply. These can be overridden by expanded states of consciousness, but not by those enslaved in only ﬁve-sense awareness where simulation codes rule. Overriding the codes is what people call ‘miracles’. They are not. They are bypassing the encoded limits of the simulation. A population caught in simulation perception would have no idea that this was their plight. As the Bonn paper said: ‘Like a prisoner in a pitch-black cell we would not be able to see the “walls” of our prison,’ That’s true if people remain mesmerised by the ﬁve senses. Open to expanded awareness and those walls become very clear. The main one is the speed of light.  American theoretical physicist James Gates is another who has explored the simulation question and found considerable evidence to support the idea. Gates was Professor of Physics at the University of Maryland, Director of The Center for String and Particle Theory, and on Barack Obama’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. He and his team found computer codes of digital data embedded in the fabric of our reality. They relate to on-oﬀ electrical charges of 1 and 0 in the binary system used by computers. ‘We have no idea what they are doing there’, Gates said. They found within the energetic fabric mathematical sequences known as error- correcting codes or block codes that ‘reboot’ data to its original state or ‘default se ings’ when something knocks it out of sync. Gates was asked if he had found a set of equations embedded in our reality indistinguishable from those that drive search engines and browsers and he said: ‘That is correct.’ Rich Terrile, director of the Centre for Evolutionary Computation and Automated Design at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, has said publicly that he believes the Universe is a digital hologram that must have been created by a form of intelligence. I agree with that in every way. Waveform information is delivered electrically by the senses to the brain which constructs a digital holographic reality that we call the ‘world’. This digital level of reality can be read by the esoteric art of numerology. Digital holograms are at the cu ing edge of holographics today. We have digital technology everywhere designed to access and manipulate our digital level of perceived reality. Synthetic mRNA in ‘Covid vaccines’ has a digital component to manipulate the body’s digital ‘operating system’.

Reality is numbers How many know that our reality can be broken down to numbers and codes that are the same as computer games? Max Tegmark, a physicist at the Massachuse s Institute of Technology (MIT), is the author of Our Mathematical Universe in which he lays out how reality can be entirely described by numbers and maths in the way that a video game is encoded with the ‘physics’ of computer games. Our world and computer virtual reality are essentially the same. Tegmark imagines the perceptions of characters in an advanced computer game when the graphics are so good they don’t know they are in a game. They think they can bump into real objects (electromagnetic resistance in our reality), fall in love and feel emotions like excitement. When they began to study the apparently ‘physical world’ of the video game they would realise that everything was made of pixels (which have been found in our energetic reality as must be the case when on one level our world is digital). What computer game characters thought was physical ‘stuﬀ’, Tegmark said, could actually be broken down into numbers:

And we’re exactly in this situation in our world. We look around and it doesn’t seem that mathematical at all, but everything we see is made out of elementary particles like quarks and electrons. And what properties does an electron have? Does it have a smell or a colour or a texture? No! ... We physicists have come up with geeky names for [Electron] properties, like electric charge, or spin, or lepton number, but the electron doesn’t care what we call it, the properties are just numbers.


 This is the illusory reality Gnostics were describing. This is the simulation. The A, C, G, and T codes of DNA have a binary value – A and C = 0 while G and T = 1. This has to be when the simulation is digital and the body must be digital to interact with it. Recurring mathematical sequences are encoded throughout reality and the body. They include the Fibonacci sequence in which the two previous numbers are added to get the next one, as in ... 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, etc. The sequence is encoded in the human face and body, proportions of animals, DNA, seed heads, pine cones, trees, shells, spiral galaxies, hurricanes and the number of petals in a ﬂower. The list goes on and on. There are fractal pa erns – a ‘never- ending pa ern that is inﬁnitely complex and self-similar across all scales in the as above, so below, principle of holograms. These and other famous recurring geometrical and mathematical sequences such as Phi, Pi, Golden Mean, Golden Ratio and Golden Section are computer codes of the simulation. I had to laugh and give my head a shake the day I ﬁnished this book and it went into the production stage. I was sent an article in Scientific American published in April, 2021, with the headline ‘Conﬁrmed! We Live in a Simulation’. Two decades a er I ﬁrst said our reality is a simulation and the speed of light is it’s outer limit the article suggested that we do live in a simulation and that the speed of light is its outer limit. I le school at 15 and never passed a major exam in my life while the writer was up to his eyes in qualiﬁcations. As I will explain in the ﬁnal chapter knowing is far be er than thinking and they come from very diﬀerent sources. The article rightly connected the speed of light to the processing speed of the ‘Matrix’ and said what has been in my books all this time … ‘If we are in a simulation, as it appears, then space is an abstract property wri en in code. It is not real’. No it’s not and if we live in a simulation something created it and it wasn’t us. ‘That David Icke says we are manipulated by aliens’ – he’s crackers.’ Wow … The reality that humanity thinks is so real is an illusion. Politicians, governments, scientists, doctors, academics, law enforcement, media, school and university curriculums, on and on, are all founded on a world that does not exist except as a simulated prison cell. Is it such a stretch to accept that ‘Covid’ doesn’t exist when our entire ‘physical’ reality doesn’t exist? Revealed here is the knowledge kept under raps in the Cult networks of compartmentalised secrecy to control humanity’s sense of reality by inducing the population to believe in a reality that’s not real. If it wasn’t so tragic in its experiential consequences the whole thing would be hysterically funny. None of this is new to Renegade Minds. Ancient Greek philosopher Plato (about 428 to about 347BC) was a major inﬂuence on Gnostic belief and he described the human plight thousands of years ago with his Allegory of the Cave. He told the symbolic story of prisoners living in a cave who had never been outside. They were chained and could only see one wall of the cave while behind them was a ﬁre that they could not see. Figures walked past the ﬁre casting shadows on the prisoners’ wall and those moving shadows became their sense of reality. Some prisoners began to study the shadows and were considered experts on them (today’s academics and scientists), but what they studied was only an illusion (today’s academics and scientists). A prisoner escaped from the cave and saw reality as it really is. When he returned to report this revelation they didn’t believe him, called him mad and threatened to kill him if he tried to set them free. Plato’s tale is not only a brilliant analogy of the human plight and our illusory reality. It describes, too, the dynamics of the ‘Covid’ hoax. I have only skimmed the surface of these subjects here. The aim of this book is to crisply connect all essential dots to put what is happening today into its true context. All subject areas and their connections in this chapter are covered in great evidential detail in Everything You Need To Know, But Have Never Been Told and The Answer.  They say that bewildered people ‘can’t see the forest for the trees’. Humanity, however, can’t see the forest for the twigs. The ﬁve senses see only twigs while Renegade Minds can see the forest and it’s the forest where the answers lie with the connections that reveals. Breaking free of perceptual programming so the forest can be seen is the way we turn all this around. Not breaking free is how humanity got into this mess. The situation may seem hopeless, but I promise you it’s not. We are a perceptual heartbeat from paradise if only we knew. CHAPTER TWELVE

Escaping Wetiko

Life is simply a vacation from the infinite Dean Cavanagh



Renegade Minds weave the web of life and events and see  common themes in the apparently random. They are always there if you look for them and their pursuit is aided by incredible synchronicity that comes when your mind is open rather than mesmerised by what it thinks it can see.  Inﬁnite awareness is inﬁnite possibility and the more of inﬁnite possibility that we access the more becomes inﬁnitely possible. That may be stating the apparently obvious, but it is a devastatingly- powerful fact that can set us free. We are a point of a ention within an inﬁnity of consciousness. The question is how much of that inﬁnity do we choose to access? How much knowledge, insight, awareness, wisdom, do we want to connect with and explore? If your focus is only in the ﬁve senses you will be inﬂuenced by a fraction of inﬁnite awareness. I mean a range so tiny that it gives new meaning to inﬁnitesimal. Limitation of self-identity and a sense of the possible limit accordingly your range of consciousness. We are what we think we are. Life is what we think it is. The dream is the dreamer and the dreamer is the dream. Buddhist philosophy puts it this way: ‘As a thing is viewed, so it appears.’ Most humans live in the realm of touch, taste, see, hear, and smell and that’s the limit of their sense of the possible and sense of self. Many will follow a religion and speak of a God in his heaven, but their lives are still dominated by the ﬁve senses in their perceptions and actions. The ﬁve senses become the arbiter of everything. When that happens all except a smear of inﬁnity is sealed away from inﬂuence by the rigid, unyielding, reality bubbles that are the ﬁve-sense human or Phantom Self. Archon Cult methodology is to isolate consciousness within ﬁve-sense reality – the simulation – and then program that consciousness with a sense of self and the world through a deluge of life-long information designed to instil the desired perception that allows global control. Eﬀorts to do this have increased dramatically with identity politics as identity bubbles are squeezed into the minutiae of ﬁve-sense detail which disconnect people even more profoundly from the inﬁnite ‘I’.  Five-sense focus and self-identity are like a ﬁrewall that limits access to the inﬁnite realms. You only perceive one radio or television station and no other. We’ll take that literally for a moment. Imagine a vast array of stations giving diﬀerent information and angles on reality, but you only ever listen to one. Here we have the human plight in which the population is overwhelmingly conﬁned to CultFM. This relates only to the frequency range of CultFM and limits perception and insight to that band – limits possibility to that band. It means you are connecting with an almost imperceptibly minuscule range of possibility and creative potential within the inﬁnite Field. It’s a world where everything seems apart from everything else and where synchronicity is rare. Synchronicity is deﬁned in the dictionary as ‘the happening by chance of two or more related or similar events at the same time‘. Use of ‘by chance’ betrays a complete misunderstanding of reality. Synchronicity is not ‘by chance’. As people open their minds, or ‘awaken’ to use the term, they notice more and more coincidences in their lives, bits of ‘luck’, apparently miraculous happenings that put them in the right place at the right time with the right people. Days become peppered with ‘fancy meeting you here’ and ‘what are the chances of that?’ My entire life has been lived like this and ever more so since my own colossal awakening in 1990 and 91 which transformed my sense of reality. Synchronicity is not ‘by chance’; it is by accessing expanded realms of possibility which allow expanded potential for manifestation. People broadcasting the same vibe from the same openness of mind tend to be drawn ‘by chance’ to each other through what I call frequency magnetism and it’s not only people. In the last more than 30 years incredible synchronicity has also led me through the Cult maze to information in so many forms and to crucial personal experiences. These ‘coincidences’ have allowed me to put the puzzle pieces together across an enormous array of subjects and situations. Those who have breached the bubble of ﬁve- sense reality will know exactly what I mean and this escape from the perceptual prison cell is open to everyone whenever they make that choice. This may appear super-human when compared with the limitations of ‘human’, but it’s really our natural state. ‘Human’ as currently experienced is consciousness in an unnatural state of induced separation from the inﬁnity of the whole. I’ll come to how this transformation into unity can be made when I have described in more detail the force that holds humanity in servitude by denying this access to inﬁnite self.

The Wetiko factor I have been talking and writing for decades about the way ﬁve-sense mind is systematically barricaded from expanded awareness. I have used the analogy of a computer (ﬁve-sense mind) and someone at the keyboard (expanded awareness). Interaction between the computer and the operator is symbolic of the interaction between ﬁve-sense mind and expanded awareness. The computer directly experiences the Internet and the operator experiences the Internet via the computer which is how it’s supposed to be – the two working as one. Archons seek to control that point where the operator connects with the computer to stop that interaction (Fig 20). Now the operator is banging the keyboard and clicking the mouse, but the computer is not responding and this happens when the computer is taken over – possessed – by an appropriately-named computer ‘virus’. The operator has lost all inﬂuence over the computer which goes its own way making decisions under the control of the ‘virus’. I have just described the dynamic through which the force known to Gnostics as Yaldabaoth and Archons disconnects ﬁve-sense mind from expanded awareness to imprison humanity in perceptual servitude.




Figure 20: The mind ‘virus’ I have been writing about for decades seeks to isolate five-sense mind (the computer) from the true ‘I’. (Image by Neil Hague).

 About a year ago I came across a Native American concept of Wetiko which describes precisely the same phenomenon. Wetiko is the spelling used by the Cree and there are other versions including wintiko and windigo used by other tribal groups. They spell the name with lower case, but I see Wetiko as a proper noun as with Archons and prefer a capital. I ﬁrst saw an article about Wetiko by writer and researcher Paul Levy which so synced with what I had been writing about the computer/operator disconnection and later the Archons. I then read his book, the fascinating Dispelling Wetiko, Breaking the Spell of Evil. The parallels between what I had concluded long before and the Native American concept of Wetiko were so clear and obvious that it was almost funny. For Wetiko see the Gnostic Archons for sure and the Jinn, the Predators, and every other name for a force of evil, inversion and chaos. Wetiko is the Native American name for the force that divides the computer from the operator (Fig 21). Indigenous author Jack D. Forbes, a founder of the Native American movement in the 1960s, wrote another book about Wetiko entitled Columbus And Other Cannibals – The Wetiko Disease of Exploitation, Imperialism, and Terrorism which I also read. Forbes says that Wetiko refers to an evil person or spirit ‘who terrorizes other creatures by means of terrible acts, including cannibalism’. Zulu shaman Credo Mutwa told me that African accounts tell how cannibalism was brought into the world by the Chitauri ‘gods’ – another manifestation of Wetiko. The distinction between ‘evil person or spirit’ relates to Archons/Wetiko possessing a human or acting as pure consciousness. Wetiko is said to be a sickness of the soul or spirit and a state of being that takes but gives nothing back – the Cult and its operatives perfectly described. Black Hawk, a Native American war leader defending their lands from conﬁscation, said European invaders had ‘poisoned hearts’ – Wetiko hearts – and that this would spread to native societies. Mention of the heart is very signiﬁcant as we shall shortly see. Forbes writes: ‘Tragically, the history of the world for the past 2,000 years is, in great part, the story of the epidemiology of the wetiko disease.’ Yes, and much longer. Forbes is correct when he says: ‘The wetikos destroyed Egypt and Babylon and Athens and Rome and Tenochtitlan [capital of the Aztec empire] and perhaps now they will destroy the entire earth.’ Evil, he said, is the number one export of a Wetiko culture – see its globalisation with ‘Covid’. Constant war, mass murder, suﬀering of all kinds, child abuse, Satanism, torture and human sacriﬁce are all expressions of Wetiko and the Wetiko possessed. The world is Wetiko made manifest, but it doesn’t have to be. There is a way out of this even now. Figure 21: The mind ‘virus’ is known to Native Americans as ‘Wetiko’. (Image by Neil Hague).


Cult of Wetiko Wetiko is the Yaldabaoth frequency distortion that seeks to a ach to human consciousness and absorb it into its own. Once this connection is made Wetiko can drive the perceptions of the target which they believe to be coming from their own mind. All the horrors of history and today from mass killers to Satanists, paedophiles like Jeﬀrey Epstein and other psychopaths, are the embodiment of Wetiko and express its state of being in all its grotesqueness. The Cult is Wetiko incarnate, Yaldabaoth incarnate, and it seeks to facilitate Wetiko assimilation of humanity in totality into its distortion by manipulating the population into low frequency states that match its own. Paul Levy writes: ‘Holographically enforced within the psyche of every human being the wetiko virus pervades and underlies the entire ﬁeld of consciousness, and can therefore potentially manifest through any one of us at any moment if we are not mindful.’ The ‘Covid’ hoax has achieved this with many people, but others have not fallen into Wetiko’s frequency lair. Players in the ‘Covid’ human catastrophe including Gates, Schwab, Tedros, Fauci, Whi y, Vallance, Johnson, Hancock, Ferguson, Drosten, and all the rest, including the psychopath psychologists, are expressions of Wetiko. This is why they have no compassion or empathy and no emotional consequence for what they do that would make them stop doing it. Observe all the people who support the psychopaths in authority against the Pushbackers despite the damaging impact the psychopaths have on their own lives and their family’s lives. You are again looking at Wetiko possession which prevents them seeing through the lies to the obvious scam going on. Why can’t they see it? Wetiko won’t let them see it. The perceptual divide that has now become a chasm is between the Wetikoed and the non-Wetikoed.  Paul Levy describes Wetiko in the same way that I have long described the Archontic force. They are the same distorted consciousness operating across dimensions of reality: ‘… the subtle body of wetiko is not located in the third dimension of space and time, literally existing in another dimension … it is able to aﬀect ordinary lives by mysteriously interpenetrating into our three- dimensional world.’ Wetiko does this through its incarnate representatives in the Cult and by weaving itself into The Field which on our level of reality is the electromagnetic information ﬁeld of the simulation or Matrix. More than that, the simulation is Wetiko / Yaldabaoth. Caleb Scharf, Director of Astrobiology at Columbia University, has speculated that ‘alien life’ could be so advanced that it has transcribed itself into the quantum realm to become what we call physics. He said intelligence indistinguishable from the fabric of the Universe would solve many of its greatest mysteries:

Perhaps hyper-advanced life isn’t just external. Perhaps it’s already all around. It is embedded in what we perceive to be physics itself, from the root behaviour of particles and fields to the phenomena of complexity and emergence ... In other words, life might not just be in the equations. It might BE the equations [My emphasis].


Scharf said it is possible that ‘we don’t recognise advanced life because it forms an integral and unsuspicious part of what we’ve considered to be the natural world’. I agree. Wetiko/Yaldabaoth is the simulation. We are literally in the body of the beast. But that doesn’t mean it has to control us. We all have the power to overcome Wetiko inﬂuence and the Cult knows that. I doubt it sleeps too well because it knows that.

Which Field? This, I suggest, is how it all works. There are two Fields. One is the ﬁerce electromagnetic light of the Matrix within the speed of light; the other is the ‘watery light’ of The Field beyond the walls of the Matrix that connects with the Great Inﬁnity. Five-sense mind and the decoding systems of the body a ach us to the Field of Matrix light. They have to or we could not experience this reality. Five-sense mind sees only the Matrix Field of information while our expanded consciousness is part of the Inﬁnity Field. When we open our minds, and most importantly our hearts, to the Inﬁnity Field we have a mission control which gives us an expanded perspective, a road map, to understand the nature of the ﬁve-sense world. If we are isolated only in ﬁve-sense mind there is no mission control. We’re on our own trying to understand a world that’s constantly feeding us information to ensure we do not understand. People in this state can feel ‘lost’ and bewildered with no direction or radar. You can see ever more clearly those who are inﬂuenced by the Fields of Big Inﬁnity or li le ﬁve-sense mind simply by their views and behaviour with regard to the ‘Covid’ hoax. We have had this division throughout known human history with the mass of the people on one side and individuals who could see and intuit beyond the walls of the simulation – Plato’s prisoner who broke out of the cave and saw reality for what it is. Such people have always been targeted by Wetiko/Archon-possessed authority, burned at the stake or demonised as mad, bad and dangerous. The Cult today and its global network of ‘anti-hate’, ‘anti-fascist’ Woke groups are all expressions of Wetiko a acking those exposing the conspiracy, ‘Covid’ lies and the ‘vaccine’ agenda.  Woke as a whole is Wetiko which explains its black and white mentality and how at one it is with the Wetiko-possessed Cult. Paul Levy said: ‘To be in this paradigm is to still be under the thrall of a two-valued logic – where things are either true or false – of a wetikoized mind.’ Wetiko consciousness is in a permanent rage, therefore so is Woke, and then there is Woke inversion and contradiction. ‘Anti-fascists’ act like fascists because fascists and ‘anti- fascists’ are both Wetiko at work. Political parties act the same while claiming to be diﬀerent for the same reason. Secret society and satanic rituals are a aching initiates to Wetiko and the cold, ruthless, psychopathic mentality that secures the positions of power all over the world is Wetiko. Reframing ‘training programmes’ have the same cumulative eﬀect of a aching Wetiko and we have their graduates described as automatons and robots with a cold, psychopathic, uncaring demeanour. They are all traits of Wetiko possession and look how many times they have been described in this book and elsewhere with regard to personnel behind ‘Covid’ including the police and medical profession. Climbing the greasy pole in any profession in a Wetiko society requires traits of Wetiko to get there and that is particularly true of politics which is not about fair competition and pre-eminence of ideas. It is founded on how many backs you can stab and arses you can lick. This culminated in the global ‘Covid’ coordination between the Wetiko possessed who pulled it oﬀ in all the diﬀerent countries without a trace of empathy and compassion for their impact on humans. Our sight sense can see only holographic form and not the Field which connects holographic form. Therefore we perceive ‘physical’ objects with ‘space’ in between. In fact that ‘space’ is energy/consciousness operating on multiple frequencies. One of them is Wetiko and that connects the Cult psychopaths, those who submit to the psychopaths, and those who serve the psychopaths in the media operations of the world. Wetiko is Gates. Wetiko is the mask-wearing submissive. Wetiko is the fake journalist and ‘fact-checker’. The Wetiko Field is coordinating the whole thing. Psychopaths, gofers, media operatives, ‘anti-hate’ hate groups, ‘fact-checkers’ and submissive people work as one unit even without human coordination because they are a ached to the same Field which is organising it all (Fig 22). Paul Levy is here describing how Wetiko-possessed people are drawn together and refuse to let any information breach their rigid perceptions. He was writing long before ‘Covid’, but I think you will recognise followers of the ‘Covid’ religion oh just a little bit:

People who are channelling the vibratory frequency of wetiko align with each other through psychic resonance to reinforce their unspoken shared agreement so as to uphold their deranged view of reality. Once an unconscious content takes possession of certain individuals, it irresistibly draws them together by mutual attraction and knits them into groups tied together by their shared madness that can easily swell into an avalanche of insanity.

A psychic epidemic is a closed system, which is to say that it is insular and not open to any new information or informing influences from the outside world which contradict its fixed, limited, and limiting perspective.


There we have the Woke mind and the ‘Covid’ mind. Compatible resonance draws the awakening together, too, which is clearly happening today.




Figure 22: The Wetiko Field from which the Cult pyramid and its personnel are made manifest. (Image by Neil Hague).


Spiritual servitude Wetiko doesn’t care about humans. It’s not human; it just possesses humans for its own ends and the eﬀect (depending on the scale of possession) can be anything from extreme psychopathy to unquestioning obedience. Wetiko’s worst nightmare is for human consciousness to expand beyond the simulation. Everything is focussed on stopping that happening through control of information, thus perception, thus frequency. The ‘education system’, media, science, medicine, academia, are all geared to maintaining humanity in ﬁve-sense servitude as is the constant stimulation of low-vibrational mental and emotional states (see ‘Covid’). Wetiko seeks to dominate those subconscious spaces between ﬁve-sense perception and expanded consciousness where the computer meets the operator. From these subconscious hiding places Wetiko speaks to us to trigger urges and desires that we take to be our own and manipulate us into anything from low-vibrational to psychopathic states. Remember how Islam describes the Jinn as invisible tricksters that ‘whisper’ and confuse. Wetiko is the origin of the ‘trickster god’ theme that you ﬁnd in cultures all over the world. Jinn, like the Archons, are Wetiko which is terriﬁed of humans awakening and reconnecting with our true self for then its energy source has gone. With that the feedback loop breaks between Wetiko and human perception that provides the energetic momentum on which its very existence depends as a force of evil. Humans are both its target and its source of survival, but only if we are operating in low-vibrational states of fear, hate, depression and the background anxiety that most people suﬀer. We are Wetiko’s target because we are its key to survival. It needs us, not the other way round. Paul Levy writes:

A vampire has no intrinsic, independent, substantial existence in its own right; it only exists in relation to us. The pathogenic, vampiric mind-parasite called wetiko is nothing in itself – not being able to exist from its own side – yet it has a ‘virtual reality’ such that it can potentially destroy our species …

…The fact that a vampire is not reflected by a mirror can also mean that what we need to see is that there’s nothing, no-thing to see, other than ourselves. The fact that wetiko is the expression of something inside of us means that the cure for wetiko is with us as well. The critical issue is finding this cure within us and then putting it into effect.  Evil begets evil because if evil does not constantly expand and ﬁnd new sources of energetic sustenance its evil, its distortion, dies with the assimilation into balance and harmony. Love is the garlic to Wetiko’s vampire. Evil, the absence of love, cannot exist in the presence of love. I think I see a way out of here. I have emphasised so many times over the decades that the Archons/Wetiko and their Cult are not all powerful. They are not. I don’t care how it looks even now they are not. I have not called them li le boys in short trousers for eﬀect. I have said it because it is true. Wetiko’s insatiable desire for power over others is not a sign of its omnipotence, but its insecurity. Paul Levy writes: ‘Due to the primal fear which ultimately drives it and which it is driven to cultivate, wetiko’s body politic has an intrinsic and insistent need for centralising power and control so as to create imagined safety for itself.’ Yeeeeeees! Exactly! Why does Wetiko want humans in an ongoing state of fear? Wetiko itself is fear and it is petriﬁed of love. As evil is an absence of love, so love is an absence of fear. Love conquers all and especially Wetiko which is fear. Wetiko brought fear into the world when it wasn’t here before. Fear was the ‘fall’, the fall into low-frequency ignorance and illusion – fear is False Emotion Appearing Real. The simulation is driven and energised by fear because Wetiko/Yaldabaoth (fear) are the simulation. Fear is the absence of love and Wetiko is the absence of love.

Wetiko today We can now view current events from this level of perspective. The ‘Covid’ hoax has generated momentous amounts of ongoing fear, anxiety, depression and despair which have empowered Wetiko. No wonder people like Gates have been the instigators when they are Wetiko incarnate and exhibit every trait of Wetiko in the extreme. See how cold and unemotional these people are like Gates and his cronies, how dead of eye they are. That’s Wetiko. Sabbatians are Wetiko and everything they control including the World Health Organization, Big Pharma and the ‘vaccine’ makers, national ‘health’ hierarchies, corporate media, Silicon Valley, the banking system, and the United Nations with its planned transformation into world government. All are controlled and possessed by the Wetiko distortion into distorting human society in its image. We are with this knowledge at the gateway to understanding the world. Divisions of race, culture, creed and sexuality are diversions to hide the real division between those possessed and inﬂuenced by Wetiko and those that are not. The ‘Covid’ hoax has brought both clearly into view. Human behaviour is not about race. Tyrants and dictatorships come in all colours and creeds. What unites the US president bombing the innocent and an African tribe commi ing genocide against another as in Rwanda? What unites them? Wetiko. All wars are Wetiko, all genocide is Wetiko, all hunger over centuries in a world of plenty is Wetiko. Children going to bed hungry, including in the West, is Wetiko. Cult-generated Woke racial divisions that focus on the body are designed to obscure the reality that divisions in behaviour are manifestations of mind, not body. Obsession with body identity and group judgement is a means to divert a ention from the real source of behaviour – mind and perception. Conﬂict sown by the Woke both within themselves and with their target groups are Wetiko providing lunch for itself through still more agents of the division, chaos, and fear on which it feeds. The Cult is seeking to assimilate the entirety of humanity and all children and young people into the Wetiko frequency by manipulating them into states of fear and despair. Witness all the suicide and psychological unravelling since the spring of 2020. Wetiko psychopaths want to impose a state of unquestioning obedience to authority which is no more than a conduit for Wetiko to enforce its will and assimilate humanity into itself. It needs us to believe that resistance is futile when it fears resistance and even more so the game-changing non-cooperation with its impositions. It can use violent resistance for its beneﬁt. Violent impositions and violent resistance are both Wetiko. The Power of Love with its Power of No will sweep Wetiko from our world. Wetiko and its Cult know that. They just don’t want us to know. AI Wetiko This brings me to AI or artiﬁcial intelligence and something else Wetikos don’t want us to know. What is AI really? I know about computer code algorithms and AI that learns from data input. These, however, are more diversions, the expeditionary force, for the real AI that they want to connect to the human brain as promoted by Silicon Valley Wetikos like Kurzweil. What is this AI? It is the frequency of Wetiko, the frequency of the Archons. The connection of AI to the human brain is the connection of the Wetiko frequency to create a Wetiko hive mind and complete the job of assimilation. The hive mind is planned to be controlled from Israel and China which are both 100 percent owned by Wetiko Sabbatians. The assimilation process has been going on minute by minute in the ‘smart’ era which fused with the ‘Covid’ era. We are told that social media is scrambling the minds of the young and changing their personality. This is true, but what is social media? Look more deeply at how it works, how it creates divisions and conﬂict, the hostility and cruelty, the targeting of people until they are destroyed. That’s Wetiko. Social media is manipulated to tune people to the Wetiko frequency with all the emotional exploitation tricks employed by platforms like Facebook and its Wetiko front man, Zuckerberg. Facebook’s Instagram announced a new platform for children to overcome a legal bar on them using the main site. This is more Wetiko exploitation and manipulation of kids. Amnesty International likened the plan to foxes oﬀering to guard the henhouse and said it was incompatible with human rights. Since when did Wetiko or Zuckerberg (I repeat myself) care about that? Would Brin and Page at Google, Wojcicki at YouTube, Bezos at Amazon and whoever the hell runs Twi er act as they do if they were not channelling Wetiko? Would those who are developing technologies for no other reason than human control? How about those designing and selling technologies to kill people and Big Pharma drug and ‘vaccine’ producers who know they will end or devastate lives? Quite a thought for these people to consider is that if you are Wetiko in a human life you are Wetiko on the ‘other side’ unless your frequency changes and that can only change by a change of perception which becomes a change of behaviour. Where Gates is going does not bear thinking about although perhaps that’s exactly where he wants to go. Either way, that’s where he’s going. His frequency will make it so.

The frequency lair I have been saying for a long time that a big part of the addiction to smartphones and devices is that a frequency is coming oﬀ them that entraps the mind. People spend ages on their phones and sometimes even a minute or so a er they put them down they pick them up again and it all repeats. ‘Covid’ lockdowns will have increased this addiction a million times for obvious reasons. Addictions to alcohol overindulgence and drugs are another way that Wetiko entraps consciousness to a ach to its own. Both are symptoms of low- vibrational psychological distress which alcoholism and drug addiction further compound. Do we think it’s really a coincidence that access to them is made so easy while potions that can take people into realms beyond the simulation are banned and illegal? I have explored smartphone addiction in other books, the scale is mind-blowing, and that level of addiction does not come without help. Tech companies that make these phones are Wetiko and they will have no qualms about destroying the minds of children. We are seeing again with these companies the Wetiko perceptual combination of psychopathic enforcers and weak and meek unquestioning compliance by the rank and ﬁle.  The global Smart Grid is the Wetiko Grid and it is crucial to complete the Cult endgame. The simulation is radiation and we are being deluged with technological radiation on a devastating scale. Wetiko frauds like Elon Musk serve Cult interests while occasionally criticising them to maintain his street-cred. 5G and other forms of Wi-Fi are being directed at the earth from space on a volume and scale that goes on increasing by the day. Elon Musk’s (oﬃcially) SpaceX Starlink project is in the process of pu ing tens of thousands of satellites in low orbit to cover every inch of the planet with 5G and other Wi-Fi to create Kurzweil’s global ‘cloud’ to which the human mind is planned to be a ached very soon. SpaceX has approval to operate 12,000 satellites with more than 1,300 launched at the time of writing and applications ﬁled for 30,000 more. Other operators in the Wi-Fi, 5G, low-orbit satellite market include OneWeb (UK), Telesat (Canada), and AST & Science (US). Musk tells us that AI could be the end of humanity and then launches a company called Neuralink to connect the human brain to computers. Musk’s (in theory) Tesla company is building electric cars and the driverless vehicles of the smart control grid. As frauds and bullshi ers go Elon Musk in my opinion is Major League.  5G and technological radiation in general are destructive to human health, genetics and psychology and increasing the strength of artiﬁcial radiation underpins the ﬁve-sense perceptual bubbles which are themselves expressions of radiation or electromagnetism. Freedom activist John Whitehead was so right with his ‘databit by databit, we are building our own electronic concentration camps’. The Smart Grid and 5G is a means to control the human mind and infuse perceptual information into The Field to inﬂuence anyone in sync with its frequency. You can change perception and behaviour en masse if you can manipulate the population into those levels of frequency and this is happening all around us today. The arrogance of Musk and his fellow Cult operatives knows no bounds in the way that we see with Gates. Musk’s satellites are so many in number already they are changing the night sky when viewed from Earth. The astronomy community has complained about this and they have seen nothing yet. Some consequences of Musk’s Wetiko hubris include: Radiation; visible pollution of the night sky; interference with astronomy and meteorology; ground and water pollution from intensive use of increasingly many spaceports; accumulating space debris; continual deorbiting and burning up of aging satellites, polluting the atmosphere with toxic dust and smoke; and ever- increasing likelihood of collisions. A collective public open le er of complaint to Musk said:

We are writing to you … because SpaceX is in process of surrounding the Earth with a network of thousands of satellites whose very purpose is to irradiate every square inch of the Earth. SpaceX, like everyone else, is treating the radiation as if it were not there. As if the mitochondria in our cells do not depend on electrons moving undisturbed from the food we digest to the oxygen we breathe.

As if our nervous systems and our hearts are not subject to radio frequency interference like any piece of electronic equipment. As if the cancer, diabetes, and heart disease that now afflict a majority of the Earth’s population are not metabolic diseases that result from interference with our cellular machinery. As if insects everywhere, and the birds and animals that eat them, are not starving to death as a result.


People like Musk and Gates believe in their limitless Wetiko arrogance that they can do whatever they like to the world because they own it. Consequences for humanity are irrelevant. It’s absolutely time that we stopped taking this shit from these self- styled masters of the Earth when you consider where this is going.

Why is the Cult so anti-human? I hear this question o en: Why would they do this when it will aﬀect them, too? Ah, but will it? Who is this them? Forget their bodies. They are just vehicles for Wetiko consciousness. When you break it all down to the foundations we are looking at a state of severely distorted consciousness targeting another state of consciousness for assimilation. The rest is detail. The simulation is the ﬂy-trap in which unique sensations of the ﬁve senses create a cycle of addiction called reincarnation. Renegade Minds see that everything which happens in our reality is a smaller version of the whole picture in line with the holographic principle. Addiction to the radiation of smart technology is a smaller version of addiction to the whole simulation. Connecting the body/brain to AI is taking that addiction on a giant step further to total ongoing control by assimilating human incarnate consciousness into Wetiko. I have watched during the ‘Covid’ hoax how many are becoming ever more profoundly a ached to Wetiko’s perceptual calling cards of aggressive response to any other point of view (‘There is no other god but me’), psychopathic lack of compassion and empathy, and servile submission to the narrative and will of authority. Wetiko is the psychopaths and subservience to psychopaths. The Cult of Wetiko is so anti-human because it is not human. It embarked on a mission to destroy human by targeting everything that it means to be human and to survive as human. ‘Covid’ is not the end, just a means to an end. The Cult with its Wetiko consciousness is seeking to change Earth systems, including the atmosphere, to suit them, not humans. The gathering bombardment of 5G alone from ground and space is dramatically changing The Field with which the ﬁve senses interact. There is so much more to come if we sit on our hands and hope it will all go away. It is not meant to go away. It is meant to get ever more extreme and we need to face that while we still can – just.  Carbon dioxide is the gas of life. Without that human is over. Kaput, gone, history. No natural world, no human. The Cult has created a cock and bull story about carbon dioxide and climate change to justify its reduction to the point where Gates and the ignoramus Biden ‘climate chief’ John Kerry want to suck it out of the atmosphere. Kerry wants to do this because his master Gates does. Wetikos have made the gas of life a demon with the usual support from the Wokers of Extinction Rebellion and similar organisations and the bewildered puppet-child that is Greta Thunberg who was put on the world stage by Klaus Schwab and the World Economic Forum. The name Extinction Rebellion is both ironic and as always Wetiko inversion. The gas that we need to survive must be reduced to save us from extinction. The most basic need of human is oxygen and we now have billions walking around in face nappies depriving body and brain of this essential requirement of human existence. More than that 5G at 60 gigahertz interacts with the oxygen molecule to reduce the amount of oxygen the body can absorb into the bloodstream. The obvious knock-on consequences of that for respiratory and cognitive problems and life itself need no further explanation. Psychopaths like Musk are assembling a global system of satellites to deluge the human atmosphere with this insanity. The man should be in jail. Here we have two most basic of human needs, oxygen and carbon dioxide, being dismantled.  Two others, water and food, are ge ing similar treatment with the United Nations Agendas 21 and 2030 – the Great Reset – planning to centrally control all water and food supplies. People will not even own rain water that falls on their land. Food is aﬀected at the most basic level by reducing carbon dioxide. We have genetic modiﬁcation or GMO inﬁltrating the food chain on a mass scale, pesticides and herbicides polluting the air and destroying the soil. Freshwater ﬁsh that provide livelihoods for 60 million people and feed hundreds of millions worldwide are being ‘pushed to the brink’ according the conservationists while climate change is the only focus. Now we have Gates and Schwab wanting to dispense with current food sources all together and replace them with a synthetic version which the Wetiko Cult would control in terms of production and who eats and who doesn’t. We have been on the Totalitarian Tiptoe to this for more than 60 years as food has become ever more processed and full of chemical shite to the point today when it’s not natural food at all. As Dr Tom Cowan says: ‘If it has a label don’t eat it.’ Bill Gates is now the biggest owner of farmland in the United States and he does nothing without an ulterior motive involving the Cult. Klaus Schwab wrote: ‘To feed the world in the next 50 years we will need to produce as much food as was produced in the last 10,000 years … food security will only be achieved, however, if regulations on genetically modiﬁed foods are adapted to reﬂect the reality that gene editing oﬀers a precise, eﬃcient and safe method of improving crops.’ Liar. People and the world are being targeted with aluminium through vaccines, chemtrails, food, drink cans, and endless other sources when aluminium has been linked to many health issues including dementia which is increasing year a er year. Insects, bees and wildlife essential to the food chain are being deleted by pesticides, herbicides and radiation which 5G is dramatically increasing with 6G and 7G to come. The pollinating bee population is being devastated while wildlife including birds, dolphins and whales are having their natural radar blocked by the eﬀects of ever-increasing radiation. In the summer windscreens used to be spla ered with insects so numerous were they. It doesn’t happen now. Where have they gone? Synthetic everything The Cult is introducing genetically-modiﬁed versions of trees, plants and insects including a Gates-funded project to unleash hundreds of millions of genetically-modiﬁed, lab-altered and patented male mosquitoes to mate with wild mosquitoes and induce genetic ﬂaws that cause them to die out. Clinically-insane Gates-funded Japanese researchers have developed mosquitos that spread vaccine and are dubbed ‘ﬂying vaccinators’. Gates is funding the modiﬁcation of weather pa erns in part to sell the myth that this is caused by carbon dioxide and he’s funding geoengineering of the skies to change the atmosphere. Some of this came to light with the Gates-backed plan to release tonnes of chalk into the atmosphere to ‘deﬂect the Sun and cool the planet’. Funny how they do this while the heating eﬀect of the Sun is not factored into climate projections focussed on carbon dioxide. The reason is that they want to reduce carbon dioxide (so don’t mention the Sun), but at the same time they do want to reduce the impact of the Sun which is so essential to human life and health. I have mentioned the sun-cholesterol-vitamin D connection as they demonise the Sun with warnings about skin cancer (caused by the chemicals in sun cream they tell you to splash on). They come from the other end of the process with statin drugs to reduce cholesterol that turns sunlight into vitamin D. A lack of vitamin D leads to a long list of health eﬀects and how vitamin D levels must have fallen with people conﬁned to their homes over ‘Covid’. Gates is funding other forms of geoengineering and most importantly chemtrails which are dropping heavy metals, aluminium and self-replicating nanotechnology onto the Earth which is killing the natural world. See Everything You Need To Know, But Have Never Been Told for the detailed background to this.  Every human system is being targeted for deletion by a force that’s not human. The Wetiko Cult has embarked on the process of transforming the human body from biological to synthetic biological as I have explained. Biological is being replaced by the artiﬁcial and synthetic – Archontic ‘countermimicry’ – right across human society. The plan eventually is to dispense with the human body altogether and absorb human consciousness – which it wouldn’t really be by then – into cyberspace (the simulation which is Wetiko/Yaldabaoth). Preparations for that are already happening if people would care to look. The alternative media rightly warns about globalism and ‘the globalists’, but this is far bigger than that and represents the end of the human race as we know it. The ‘bad copy’ of prime reality that Gnostics describe was a bad copy of harmony, wonder and beauty to start with before Wetiko/Yaldabaoth set out to change the simulated ‘copy’ into something very diﬀerent. The process was slow to start with. Entrapped humans in the simulation timeline were not technologically aware and they had to be brought up to intellectual speed while being suppressed spiritually to the point where they could build their own prison while having no idea they were doing so. We have now reached that stage where technological intellect has the potential to destroy us and that’s why events are moving so fast. Central American shaman Don Juan Matus said:

Think for a moment, and tell me how you would explain the contradictions between the intelligence of man the engineer and the stupidity of his systems of belief, or the stupidity of his contradictory behaviour. Sorcerers believe that the predators have given us our systems of beliefs, our ideas of good and evil; our social mores. They are the ones who set up our dreams of success or failure. They have given us covetousness, greed, and cowardice. It is the predator who makes us complacent, routinary, and egomaniacal.

In order to keep us obedient and meek and weak, the predators engaged themselves in a stupendous manoeuvre – stupendous, of course, from the point of view of a fighting strategist; a horrendous manoeuvre from the point of those who suffer it. They gave us their mind. The predators’ mind is baroque, contradictory, morose, filled with the fear of being discovered any minute now.


For ‘predators’ see Wetiko, Archons, Yaldabaoth, Jinn, and all the other versions of the same phenomenon in cultures and religions all over the world. The theme is always the same because it’s true and it’s real. We have reached the point where we have to deal with it. The question is – how?

Don’t fight – walk away I thought I’d use a controversial subheading to get things moving in terms of our response to global fascism. What do you mean ‘don’t ﬁght’? What do you mean ‘walk away’? We’ve got to ﬁght. We can’t walk away. Well, it depends what we mean by ﬁght and walk away. If ﬁghting means physical combat we are playing Wetiko’s game and falling for its trap. It wants us to get angry, aggressive, and direct hate and hostility at the enemy we think we must ﬁght. Every war, every ba le, every conﬂict, has been fought with Wetiko leading both sides. It’s what it does. Wetiko wants a ﬁght, anywhere, any place. Just hit me, son, so I can hit you back. Wetiko hits Wetiko and Wetiko hits Wetiko in return. I am very forthright as you can see in exposing Wetikos of the Cult, but I don’t hate them. I refuse to hate them. It’s what they want. What you hate you become. What you fight you become. Wokers, ‘anti-haters’ and ‘anti-fascists’ prove this every time they reach for their keyboards or don their balaclavas. By walk away I mean to disengage from Wetiko which includes ceasing to cooperate with its tyranny. Paul Levy says of Wetiko:

The way to ‘defeat’ evil is not to try to destroy it (for then, in playing evil’s game, we have already lost), but rather, to find the invulnerable place within ourselves where evil is unable to vanquish us – this is to truly ‘win’ our battle with evil.


Wetiko is everywhere in human society and it’s been on steroids since the ‘Covid’ hoax. Every shouting match over wearing masks has Wetiko wearing a mask and Wetiko not wearing one. It’s an electrical circuit of push and resist, push and resist, with Wetiko pushing and resisting. Each polarity is Wetiko empowering itself. Dictionary deﬁnitions of ‘resist’ include ‘opposing, refusing to accept or comply with’ and the word to focus on is ‘opposing’. What form does this take – se ing police cars alight or ‘refusing to accept or comply with’? The former is Wetiko opposing Wetiko while the other points the way forward. This is the diﬀerence between those aggressively demanding that government fascism must be obeyed who stand in stark contrast to the great majority of Pushbackers. We saw this clearly with a march by thousands of Pushbackers against lockdown in London followed days later by a Woker-hĳacked protest in Bristol in which police cars were set on ﬁre. Masks were virtually absent in London and widespread in Bristol. Wetiko wants lockdown on every level of society and infuses its aggression to police it through its unknowing stooges. Lockdown protesters are the ones with the smiling faces and the hugs, The two blatantly obvious states of being – ge ing more obvious by the day – are the result of Wokers and their like becoming ever more inﬂuenced by the simulation Field of Wetiko and Pushbackers ever more inﬂuenced by The Field of a far higher vibration beyond the simulation. Wetiko can’t invade the heart which is where most lockdown opponents are coming from. It’s the heart that allows them to see through the lies to the truth in ways I will be highlighting.  Renegade Minds know that calmness is the place from which wisdom comes. You won’t ﬁnd wisdom in a hissing ﬁt and wisdom is what we need in abundance right now. Calmness is not weakness – you don’t have to scream at the top of your voice to be strong. Calmness is indeed a sign of strength. ‘No’ means I’m not doing it. NOOOO!!! doesn’t mean you’re not doing it even more. Volume does not advance ‘No – I’m not doing it’. You are just not doing it. Wetiko possessed and inﬂuenced don’t know how to deal with that. Wetiko wants a ﬁght and we should not give it one. What it needs more than anything is our cooperation and we should not give that either. Mass rallies and marches are great in that they are a visual representation of feeling, but if it ends there they are irrelevant. You demand that Wetikos act diﬀerently? Well, they’re not going to are they? They are Wetikos. We don’t need to waste our time demanding that something doesn’t happen when that will make no diﬀerence. We need to delete the means that allows it to happen. This, invariably, is our cooperation. You can demand a child stop ﬁring a peashooter at the dog or you can refuse to buy the peashooter. If you provide the means you are cooperating with the dog being smacked on the nose with a pea. How can the authorities enforce mask-wearing if millions in a country refuse? What if the 74 million Pushbackers that voted for Trump in 2020 refused to wear masks, close their businesses or stay in their homes. It would be unenforceable. The few control the many through the compliance of the many and that’s always been the dynamic be it ‘Covid’ regulations or the Roman Empire. I know people can ﬁnd it intimidating to say no to authority or stand out in a crowd for being the only one with a face on display; but it has to be done or it’s over. I hope I’ve made clear in this book that where this is going will be far more intimidating than standing up now and saying ‘No’ – I will not cooperate with my own enslavement and that of my children. There might be consequences for some initially, although not so if enough do the same. The question that must be addressed is what is going to happen if we don’t? It is time to be strong and unyieldingly so. No means no. Not here and there, but everywhere and always. I have refused to wear a mask and obey all the other nonsense. I will not comply with tyranny. I repeat: Fascism is not imposed by fascists – there are never enough of them. Fascism is imposed by the population acquiescing to fascism. I will not do it. I will die ﬁrst, or my body will. Living meekly under fascism is a form of death anyway, the death of the spirit that Martin Luther King described.

Making things happen We must not despair. This is not over till it’s over and it’s far from that. The ‘fat lady’ must refuse to sing. The longer the ‘Covid’ hoax has dragged on and impacted on more lives we have seen an awakening of phenomenal numbers of people worldwide to the realisation that what they have believed all their lives is not how the world really is. Research published by the system-serving University of Bristol and King’s College London in February, 2021, concluded: ‘One in every 11 people in Britain say they trust David Icke’s take on the coronavirus pandemic.’ It will be more by now and we have gathering numbers to build on. We must urgently progress from seeing the scam to ceasing to cooperate with it. Prominent German lawyer Reiner Fuellmich, also licenced to practice law in America, is doing a magniﬁcent job taking the legal route to bring the psychopaths to justice through a second Nuremberg tribunal for crimes against humanity. Fuellmich has an impressive record of beating the elite in court and he formed the German Corona Investigative Commi ee to pursue civil charges against the main perpetrators with a view to triggering criminal charges. Most importantly he has grasped the foundation of the hoax – the PCR test not testing for the ‘virus’ – and Christian Drosten is therefore on his charge sheet along with Gates frontman Tedros at the World Health Organization. Major players must be not be allowed to inﬂict their horrors on the human race without being brought to book. A life sentence must follow for Bill Gates and the rest of them. A group of researchers has also indicted the government of Norway for crimes against humanity with copies sent to the police and the International Criminal Court. The lawsuit cites participation in an internationally-planned false pandemic and violation of international law and human rights, the European Commission’s deﬁnition of human rights by coercive rules, Nuremberg and Hague rules on fundamental human rights, and the Norwegian constitution. We must take the initiative from hereon and not just complain, protest and react.  There are practical ways to support vital mass non-cooperation. Organising in numbers is one. Lockdown marches in London in the spring in 2021 were mass non-cooperation that the authorities could not stop. There were too many people. Hundreds of thousands walked the London streets in the centre of the road for mile a er mile while the Face-Nappies could only look on. They were determined, but calm, and just did it with no histrionics and lots of smiles. The police were impotent. Others are organising group shopping without masks for mutual support and imagine if that was happening all over. Policing it would be impossible. If the store refuses to serve people in these circumstances they would be faced with a long line of trolleys full of goods standing on their own and everything would have to be returned to the shelves. How would they cope with that if it kept happening? I am talking here about moving on from complaining to being pro-active; from watching things happen to making things happen. I include in this our relationship with the police. The behaviour of many Face-Nappies has been disgraceful and anyone who thinks they would never ﬁnd concentration camp guards in the ‘enlightened’ modern era have had that myth busted big-time. The period and se ing may change – Wetikos never do. I watched ﬁlm footage from a London march in which a police thug viciously kicked a protestor on the ﬂoor who had done nothing. His fellow Face-Nappies stood in a ring protecting him. What he did was a criminal assault and with a crowd far outnumbering the police this can no longer be allowed to happen unchallenged. I get it when people chant ‘shame on you’ in these circumstances, but that is no longer enough. They have no shame those who do this. Crowds needs to start making a citizen’s arrest of the police who commit criminal oﬀences and brutally a ack innocent people and defenceless women. A citizen’s arrest can be made under section 24A of the UK Police and Criminal Evidence (PACE) Act of 1984 and you will ﬁnd something similar in other countries. I prefer to call it a Common Law arrest rather than citizen’s for reasons I will come to shortly. Anyone can arrest a person commi ing an indictable oﬀence or if they have reasonable grounds to suspect they are commi ing an indictable oﬀence. On both counts the a ack by the police thug would have fallen into this category. A citizen’s arrest can be made to stop someone:

• Causing physical injury to himself or any other person • Suﬀering physical injury • Causing loss of or damage to property • Making oﬀ before a constable can assume responsibility for him

A citizen’s arrest may also be made to prevent a breach of the peace under Common Law and if they believe a breach of the peace will happen or anything related to harm likely to be done or already done in their presence. This is the way to go I think – the Common Law version. If police know that the crowd and members of the public will no longer be standing and watching while they commit their thuggery and crimes they will think twice about acting like Brownshirts and Blackshirts.

Common Law – common sense Mention of Common Law is very important. Most people think the law is the law as in one law. This is not the case. There are two bodies of law, Common Law and Statute Law, and they are not the same. Common Law is founded on the simple premise of do no harm. It does not recognise victimless crimes in which no harm is done while Statute Law does. There is a Statute Law against almost everything. So what is Statute Law? Amazingly it’s the law of the sea that was brought ashore by the Cult to override the law of the land which is Common Law. They had no right to do this and as always they did it anyway. They had to. They could not impose their will on the people through Common Law which only applies to do no harm. How could you stitch up the ﬁne detail of people’s lives with that? Instead they took the law of the sea, or Admiralty Law, and applied it to the population. Statute Law refers to all the laws spewing out of governments and their agencies including all the fascist laws and regulations relating to ‘Covid’. The key point to make is that Statute Law is contract law. It only applies between contracting corporations. Most police oﬃcers don’t even know this. They have to be kept in the dark, too. Long ago when merchants and their sailing ships began to trade with diﬀerent countries a contractual law was developed called Admiralty Law and other names. Again it only applied to contracts agreed between corporate entities. If there is no agreed contract the law of the sea had no jurisdiction and that still applies to its new alias of Statute Law. The problem for the Cult when the law of the sea was brought ashore was an obvious one. People were not corporations and neither were government entities. To overcome the la er they made governments and all associated organisations corporations. All the institutions are private corporations and I mean governments and their agencies, local councils, police, courts, military, US states, the whole lot. Go to the Dun and Bradstreet corporate listings website for conﬁrmation that they are all corporations. You are arrested by a private corporation called the police by someone who is really a private security guard and they take you to court which is another private corporation. Neither have jurisdiction over you unless you consent and contract with them. This is why you hear the mantra about law enforcement policing by consent of the people. In truth the people ‘consent’ only in theory through monumental trickery.  Okay, the Cult overcame the corporate law problem by making governments and institutions corporate entities; but what about people? They are not corporations are they? Ah ... well in a sense, and only a sense, they are. Not people exactly – the illusion of people. The Cult creates a corporation in the name of everyone at the time that their birth certiﬁcate is issued. Note birth/ berth certiﬁcate and when you go to court under the law of the sea on land you stand in a dock. These are throwbacks to the origin. My Common Law name is David Vaughan Icke. The name of the corporation created by the government when I was born is called Mr David Vaughan Icke usually wri en in capitals as MR DAVID VAUGHAN ICKE. That is not me, the living, breathing man. It is a ﬁctitious corporate entity. The trick is to make you think that David Vaughan Icke and MR DAVID VAUGHAN ICKE are the same thing. They are not. When police charge you and take you to court they are prosecuting the corporate entity and not the living, breathing, man or woman. They have to trick you into identifying as the corporate entity and contracting with them. Otherwise they have no jurisdiction. They do this through a language known as legalese. Lawful and legal are not the same either. Lawful relates to Common Law and legal relates to Statute Law. Legalese is the language of Statue Law which uses terms that mean one thing to the public and another in legalese. Notice that when a police oﬃcer tells someone why they are being charged he or she will say at the end: ‘Do you understand?’ To the public that means ‘Do you comprehend?’ In legalese it means ‘Do you stand under me?’ Do you stand under my authority? If you say yes to the question you are unknowingly agreeing to give them jurisdiction over you in a contract between two corporate entities. This is a conﬁdence trick in every way. Contracts have to be agreed between informed parties and if you don’t know that David Vaughan Icke is agreeing to be the corporation MR DAVID VAUGHAN ICKE you cannot knowingly agree to contract. They are deceiving you and another way they do this is to ask for proof of identity. You usually show them a driving licence or other document on which your corporate name is wri en. In doing so you are accepting that you are that corporate entity when you are not. Referring to yourself as a ‘person’ or ‘citizen’ is also identifying with your corporate ﬁction which is why I made the Common Law point about the citizen’s arrest. If you are approached by a police oﬃcer you identify yourself immediately as a living, breathing, man or woman and say ‘I do not consent, I do not contract with you and I do not understand’ or stand under their authority. I have a Common Law birth certiﬁcate as a living man and these are available at no charge from commonlawcourt.com. Businesses registered under the Statute Law system means that its laws apply. There are, however, ways to run a business under Common Law. Remember all ‘Covid’ laws and regulations are Statute Law – the law of contracts and you do not have to contract. This doesn’t mean that you can kill someone and get away with it. Common Law says do no harm and that applies to physical harm, ﬁnancial harm etc. Police are employees of private corporations and there needs to be a new system of non- corporate Common Law constables operating outside the Statute Law system. If you go to davidicke.com and put Common Law into the search engine you will ﬁnd videos that explain Common Law in much greater detail. It is deﬁnitely a road we should walk.

With all my heart I have heard people say that we are in a spiritual war. I don’t like the term ‘war’ with its Wetiko dynamic, but I know what they mean. Sweep aside all the bodily forms and we are in a situation in which two states of consciousness are seeking very diﬀerent realities. Wetiko wants upheaval, chaos, fear, suﬀering, conﬂict and control. The other wants love, peace, harmony, fairness and freedom. That’s where we are. We should not fall for the idea that Wetiko is all- powerful and there’s nothing we can do. Wetiko is not all-powerful. It’s a joke, pathetic. It doesn’t have to be, but it has made that choice for now. A handful of times over the years when I have felt the presence of its frequency I have allowed it to a ach brieﬂy so I could consciously observe its nature. The experience is not pleasant, the energy is heavy and dark, but the ease with which you can kick it back out the door shows that its real power is in persuading us that it has power. It’s all a con. Wetiko is a con. It’s a trickster and not a power that can control us if we unleash our own. The con is founded on manipulating humanity to give its power to Wetiko which recycles it back to present the illusion that it has power when its power is ours that we gave away. This happens on an energetic level and plays out in the world of the seen as humanity giving its power to Wetiko authority which uses that power to control the population when the power is only the power the population has handed over. How could it be any other way for billions to be controlled by a relative few? I have had experiences with people possessed by Wetiko and again you can kick its arse if you do it with an open heart. Oh yes – the heart which can transform the world of perceived ‘ma er’.  We are receiver-transmi ers and processors of information, but what information and where from? Information is processed into perception in three main areas – the brain, the heart and the belly. These relate to thinking, knowing, and emotion. Wetiko wants us to be head and belly people which means we think within the conﬁnes of the Matrix simulation and low-vibrational emotional reaction scrambles balance and perception. A few minutes on social media and you see how emotion is the dominant force. Woke is all emotion and is therefore thought-free and fact-free. Our heart is something diﬀerent. It knows while the head thinks and has to try to work it out because it doesn’t know. The human energy ﬁeld has seven prime vortexes which connect us with wider reality (Fig 23). Chakra means ‘wheels of light’ in the Sanskrit language of ancient India. The main ones are: The crown chakra on top of the head; brow (or ‘third eye’) chakra in the centre of the forehead; throat chakra; heart chakra in the centre of the chest; solar plexus chakra below the sternum; sacral chakra beneath the navel; and base chakra at the bo om of the spine. Each one has a particular function or functions. We feel anxiety and nervousness in the belly where the sacral chakra is located and this processes emotion that can aﬀect the colon to give people ‘the shits’ or make them ‘shit scared’ when they are nervous. Chakras all play an important role, but the Mr and Mrs Big is the heart chakra which sits at the centre of the seven, above the chakras that connect us to the ‘physical’ and below those that connect with higher realms (or at least should). Here in the heart chakra we feel love, empathy and compassion – ‘My heart goes out to you’. Those with closed hearts become literally ‘heart-less’ in their a itudes and behaviour (see Bill Gates). Native Americans portrayed Wetiko with what Paul Levy calls a ‘frigid, icy heart, devoid of mercy’ (see Bill Gates).




Figure 23: The chakra system which interpenetrates the human energy field. The heart chakra is the governor – or should be.

Wetiko trembles at the thought of heart energy which it cannot inﬁltrate. The frequency is too high. What it seeks to do instead is close the heart chakra vortex to block its perceptual and energetic inﬂuence. Psychopaths have ‘hearts of stone’ and emotionally- damaged people have ‘heartache’ and ‘broken hearts’. The astonishing amount of heart disease is related to heart chakra disruption with its fundamental connection to the ‘physical’ heart. Dr Tom Cowan has wri en an outstanding book challenging the belief that the heart is a pump and making the connection between the ‘physical’ and spiritual heart. Rudolph Steiner who was way ahead of his time said the same about the fallacy that the heart is a pump. What? The heart is not a pump? That’s crazy, right? Everybody knows that. Read Cowan’s Human Heart, Cosmic Heart and you will realise that the very idea of the heart as a pump is ridiculous when you see the evidence. How does blood in the feet so far from the heart get pumped horizontally up the body by the heart?? Cowan explains in the book the real reason why blood moves as it does. Our ‘physical’ heart is used to symbolise love when the source is really the heart vortex or spiritual heart which is our most powerful energetic connection to ‘out there’ expanded consciousness. That’s why we feel knowing – intuitive knowing – in the centre of the chest. Knowing doesn’t come from a process of thoughts leading to a conclusion. It is there in an instant all in one go. Our heart knows because of its connection to levels of awareness that do know. This is the meaning and source of intuition – intuitive knowing.  For the last more than 30 years of uncovering the global game and the nature of reality my heart has been my constant antenna for truth and accuracy. An American intelligence insider once said that I had quoted a disinformer in one of my books and yet I had only quoted the part that was true. He asked: ‘How do you do that?’ By using my heart antenna was the answer and anyone can do it. Heart- centred is how we are meant to be. With a closed heart chakra we withdraw into a closed mind and the bubble of ﬁve-sense reality. If you take a moment to focus your a ention on the centre of your chest, picture a spinning wheel of light and see it opening and expanding. You will feel it happening, too, and perceptions of the heart like joy and love as the heart impacts on the mind as they interact. The more the chakra opens the more you will feel expressions of heart consciousness and as the process continues, and becomes part of you, insights and knowings will follow. An open heart is connected to that level of awareness that knows all is One. You will see from its perspective that the fault-lines that divide us are only illusions to control us. An open heart does not process the illusions of race, creed and sexuality except as brief experiences for a consciousness that is all. Our heart does not see division, only unity (Figs 24 and 25). There’s something else, too. Our hearts love to laugh. Mark Twain’s quote that says ‘The human race has one really eﬀective weapon, and that is laughter’ is really a reference to the heart which loves to laugh with the joy of knowing the true nature of inﬁnite reality and that all the madness of human society is an illusion of the mind. Twain also said: ‘Against the assault of laughter nothing can stand.’ This is so true of Wetiko and the Cult. Their insecurity demands that they be taken seriously and their power and authority acknowledged and feared. We should do nothing of the sort. We should not get aggressive or fearful which their insecurity so desires. We should laugh in their face. Even in their no-face as police come over in their face-nappies and expect to be taken seriously. They don’t take themselves seriously looking like that so why should we? Laugh in the face of intimidation. Laugh in the face of tyranny. You will see by its reaction that you have pressed all of its bu ons. Wetiko does not know what to do in the face of laughter or when its targets refuse to concede their joy to fear. We have seen many examples during the ‘Covid’ hoax when people have expressed their energetic power and the string puppets of Wetiko retreat with their tail limp between their knees. Laugh – the world is bloody mad a er all and if it’s a choice between laughter and tears I know which way I’m going. Figure 24: Head consciousness without the heart sees division and everything apart from everything else.




Figure 25: Heart consciousness sees everything as One.


‘Vaccines’ and the soul The foundation of Wetiko/Archon control of humans is the separation of incarnate ﬁve-sense mind from the inﬁnite ‘I’ and closing the heart chakra where the True ‘I’ lives during a human life. The goal has been to achieve complete separation in both cases. I was interested therefore to read an account by a French energetic healer of what she said she experienced with a patient who had been given the ‘Covid’ vaccine. Genuine energy healers can sense information and consciousness ﬁelds at diﬀerent levels of being which are referred to as ‘subtle bodies’. She described treating the patient who later returned a er having, without the healer’s knowledge, two doses of the ‘Covid vaccine’. The healer said:

I noticed immediately the change, very heavy energy emanating from [the] subtle bodies. The scariest thing was when I was working on the heart chakra, I connected with her soul: it was detached from the physical body, it had no contact and it was, as if it was floating in a state of total confusion: a damage to the consciousness that loses contact with the physical body, i.e. with our biological machine, there is no longer any communication between them.

I continued the treatment by sending light to the heart chakra, the soul of the person, but it seemed that the soul could no longer receive any light, frequency or energy. It was a very powerful experience for me. Then I understood that this substance is indeed used to detach consciousness so that this consciousness can no longer interact through this body that it possesses in life, where there is no longer any contact, no frequency, no light, no more energetic balance or mind. This would create a human that is rudderless and at the extreme almost zombie-like operating with a fractional state of consciousness at the mercy of Wetiko. I was especially intrigued by what the healer said in the light of the prediction by the highly-informed Rudolf Steiner more than a hundred years ago. He said:

In the future, we will eliminate the soul with medicine. Under the pretext of a ‘healthy point of view’, there will be a vaccine by which the human body will be treated as soon as possible directly at birth, so that the human being cannot develop the thought of the existence of soul and Spirit. To materialistic doctors will be entrusted the task of removing the soul of humanity.

As today, people are vaccinated against this disease or that disease, so in the future, children will be vaccinated with a substance that can be produced precisely in such a way that people, thanks to this vaccination, will be immune to being subjected to the ‘madness’ of spiritual life. He would be extremely smart, but he would not develop a conscience, and that is the true goal of some materialistic circles.


 Steiner said the vaccine would detach the physical body from the etheric body (subtle bodies) and ‘once the etheric body is detached the relationship between the universe and the etheric body would become extremely unstable, and man would become an automaton’. He said ‘the physical body of man must be polished on this Earth by spiritual will – so the vaccine becomes a kind of arymanique (Wetiko) force’ and ‘man can no longer get rid of a given materialistic feeling’. Humans would then, he said, become ‘materialistic of constitution and can no longer rise to the spiritual’. I have been writing for years about DNA being a receiver-transmi er of information that connects us to other levels of reality and these ‘vaccines’ changing DNA can be likened to changing an antenna and what it can transmit and receive. Such a disconnection would clearly lead to changes in personality and perception. Steiner further predicted the arrival of AI. Big Pharma ‘Covid vaccine’ makers, expressions of Wetiko, are testing their DNA-manipulating evil on children as I write with a view to giving the ‘vaccine’ to babies. If it’s a soul-body disconnector – and I say that it is or can be – every child would be disconnected from ‘soul’ at birth and the ‘vaccine’ would create a closed system in which spiritual guidance from the greater self would play no part. This has been the ambition of Wetiko all along. A Pentagon video from 2005 was leaked of a presentation explaining the development of vaccines to change behaviour by their eﬀect on the brain. Those that believe this is not happening with the ‘Covid’ genetically-modifying procedure masquerading as a ‘vaccine’ should make an urgent appointment with Naivety Anonymous. Klaus Schwab wrote in 2018:

Neurotechnologies enable us to better influence consciousness and thought and to understand many activities of the brain. They include decoding what we are thinking in fine levels of detail through new chemicals and interventions that can influence our brains to correct for errors or enhance functionality.


The plan is clear and only the heart can stop it. With every heart that opens, every mind that awakens, Wetiko is weakened. Heart and love are far more powerful than head and hate and so nothing like a majority is needed to turn this around.

Beyond the Phantom Our heart is the prime target of Wetiko and so it must be the answer to Wetiko. We are our heart which is part of one heart, the inﬁnite heart. Our heart is where the true self lives in a human life behind ﬁrewalls of ﬁve-sense illusion when an imposter takes its place – Phantom Self; but our heart waits patiently to be set free any time we choose to see beyond the Phantom, beyond Wetiko. A Wetikoed Phantom Self can wreak mass death and destruction while the love of forever is locked away in its heart. The time is here to unleash its power and let it sweep away the fear and despair that is Wetiko. Heart consciousness does not seek manipulated, censored, advantage for its belief or religion, its activism and desires. As an expression of the One it treats all as One with the same rights to freedom and opinion. Our heart demands fairness for itself no more than for others. From this unity of heart we can come together in mutual support and transform this Wetikoed world into what reality is meant to be – a place of love, joy, happiness, fairness, justice and freedom. Wetiko has another agenda and that’s why the world is as it is, but enough of this nonsense. Wetiko can’t stay where hearts are open and it works so hard to keep them closed. Fear is its currency and its food source and love in its true sense has no fear. Why would love have fear when it knows it is All That Is, Has Been, And Ever Can Be on an eternal exploration of all possibility? Love in this true sense is not the physical a raction that passes for love. This can be an expression of it, yes, but Inﬁnite Love, a love without condition, goes far deeper to the core of all being. It is the core of all being. Inﬁnite realty was born from love beyond the illusions of the simulation. Love inﬁnitely expressed is the knowing that all is One and the swi ly-passing experience of separation is a temporary hallucination. You cannot disconnect from Oneness; you can only perceive that you have and withdraw from its inﬂuence. This is the most important of all perception trickery by the mind parasite that is Wetiko and the foundation of all its potential for manipulation.  If we open our hearts, open the sluice gates of the mind, and redeﬁne self-identity amazing things start to happen. Consciousness expands or contracts in accordance with self-identity. When true self is recognised as inﬁnite awareness and label self – Phantom Self – is seen as only a series of brief experiences life is transformed. Consciousness expands to the extent that self-identity expands and everything changes. You see unity, not division, the picture, not the pixels. From this we can play the long game. No more is an experience something in and of itself, but a ﬂeeting moment in the eternity of forever. Suddenly people in uniform and dark suits are no longer intimidating. Doing what your heart knows to be right is no longer intimidating and consequences for those actions take on the same nature of a brief experience that passes in the blink of an inﬁnite eye. Intimidation is all in the mind. Beyond the mind there is no intimidation.  An open heart does not consider consequences for what it knows to be right. To do so would be to consider not doing what it knows to be right and for a heart in its power that is never an option. The Renegade Mind is really the Renegade Heart. Consideration of consequences will always provide a getaway car for the mind and the heart doesn’t want one. What is right in the light of what we face today is to stop cooperating with Wetiko in all its forms and to do it without fear or compromise. You cannot compromise with tyranny when tyranny always demands more until it has everything. Life is your perception and you are your destiny. Change your perception and you change your life. Change collective perception and we change the world. Come on people … One human family, One heart, One goal … FREEEEEEDOM! We must se le for nothing less.  Postscript



The big scare story as the book goes to press is the ‘Indian’  variant and the world is being deluged with propaganda about the ‘Covid catastrophe’ in India which mirrors in its lies and misrepresentations what happened in Italy before the ﬁrst lockdown in 2020.  The New York Post published a picture of someone who had ‘collapsed in the street from Covid’ in India in April, 2021, which was actually taken during a gas leak in May, 2020. Same old, same old. Media articles in mid-February were asking why India had been so untouched by ‘Covid’ and then as their vaccine rollout gathered pace the alleged ‘cases’ began to rapidly increase. Indian ‘Covid vaccine’ maker Bharat Biotech was funded into existence by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (the pair announced their divorce in May, 2021, which is a pity because they so deserve each other). The Indian ‘Covid crisis’ was ramped up by the media to terrify the world and prepare people for submission to still more restrictions. The scam that worked the ﬁrst time was being repeated only with far more people seeing through the deceit. Davidicke.com and Ickonic.com have sought to tell the true story of what is happening by talking to people living through the Indian nightmare which has nothing to do with ‘Covid’. We posted a le er from ‘Alisha’ in Pune who told a very diﬀerent story to government and media mendacity. She said scenes of dying people and overwhelmed hospitals were designed to hide what was really happening – genocide and starvation. Alisha said that millions had already died of starvation during the ongoing lockdowns while government and media were lying and making it look like the ‘virus’: Restaurants, shops, gyms, theatres, basically everything is shut. The cities are ghost towns. Even so-called ‘essential’ businesses are only open till 11am in the morning. You basically have just an hour to buy food and then your time is up.

Inter-state travel and even inter-district travel is banned. The cops wait at all major crossroads to question why you are traveling outdoors or to fine you if you are not wearing a mask.

The medical community here is also complicit in genocide, lying about hospitals being full and turning away people with genuine illnesses, who need immediate care. They have even created a shortage of oxygen cylinders.


This is the classic Cult modus operandi played out in every country. Alisha said that people who would not have a PCR test not testing for the ‘virus’ were being denied hospital treatment. She said the people hit hardest were migrant workers and those in rural areas. Most businesses employed migrant workers and with everything closed there were no jobs, no income and no food. As a result millions were dying of starvation or malnutrition. All this was happening under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a 100-percent asset of the Cult, and it emphasises yet again the scale of pure anti- human evil we are dealing with. Australia banned its people from returning home from India with penalties for trying to do so of up to ﬁve years in jail and a ﬁne of £37,000. The manufactured ‘Covid’ crisis in India was being prepared to justify further fascism in the West. Obvious connections could be seen between the Indian ‘vaccine’ programme and increased ‘cases’ and this became a common theme. The Seychelles, the most per capita ‘Covid vaccinated’ population in the world, went back into lockdown a er a ‘surge of cases’.  Long ago the truly evil Monsanto agricultural biotechnology corporation with its big connections to Bill Gates devastated Indian farming with genetically-modiﬁed crops. Human rights activist Gurcharan Singh highlighted the eﬀorts by the Indian government to complete the job by destroying the food supply to hundreds of millions with ‘Covid’ lockdowns. He said that 415 million people at the bo om of the disgusting caste system (still going whatever they say) were below the poverty line and struggled to feed themselves every year. Now the government was imposing lockdown at just the time to destroy the harvest. This deliberate policy was leading to mass starvation. People may reel back at the suggestion that a government would do that, but Wetiko-controlled ‘leaders’ are capable of any level of evil. In fact what is described in India is in the process of being instigated worldwide. The food chain and food supply are being targeted at every level to cause world hunger and thus control. Bill Gates is not the biggest owner of farmland in America for no reason and destroying access to food aids both the depopulation agenda and the plan for synthetic ‘food’ already being funded into existence by Gates. Add to this the coming hyper- inﬂation from the suicidal creation of fake ‘money’ in response to ‘Covid’ and the breakdown of container shipping systems and you have a cocktail that can only lead one way and is meant to. The Cult plan is to crash the entire system to ‘build back be er’ with the Great Reset.

‘Vaccine’ transmission Reports from all over the world continue to emerge of women suﬀering menstrual and fertility problems a er having the fake ‘vaccine’ and of the non-’vaccinated’ having similar problems when interacting with the ‘vaccinated’. There are far too many for ‘coincidence’ to be credible. We’ve had menopausal women ge ing periods, others having periods stop or not stopping for weeks, passing clots, sometimes the lining of the uterus, breast irregularities, and miscarriages (which increased by 400 percent in parts of the United States). Non-‘vaccinated’ men and children have suﬀered blood clots and nose bleeding a er interaction with the ‘vaccinated’. Babies have died from the eﬀects of breast milk from a ‘vaccinated’ mother. Awake doctors – the small minority – speculated on the cause of non-’vaccinated’ suﬀering the same eﬀects as the ‘vaccinated’. Was it nanotechnology in the synthetic substance transmi ing frequencies or was it a straight chemical bioweapon that was being transmi ed between people? I am not saying that some kind of chemical transmission is not one possible answer, but the foundation of all that the Cult does is frequency and this is fertile ground for understanding how transmission can happen. American doctor Carrie Madej, an internal medicine physician and osteopath, has been practicing for the last 20 years, teaching medical students, and she says a ending diﬀerent meetings where the agenda for humanity was discussed. Madej, who operates out of Georgia, did not dismiss other possible forms of transmission, but she focused on frequency in search of an explanation for transmission. She said the Moderna and Pﬁzer ‘vaccines’ contained nano-lipid particles as a key component. This was a brand new technology never before used on humanity. ‘They’re using a nanotechnology which is pre y much li le tiny computer bits … nanobots or hydrogel.’ Inside the ‘vaccines’ was ‘this sci-ﬁ kind of substance’ which suppressed immune checkpoints to get into the cell. I referred to this earlier as the ‘Trojan horse’ technique that tricks the cell into opening a gateway for the self-replicating synthetic material and while the immune system is artiﬁcially suppressed the body has no defences. Madej said the substance served many purposes including an on-demand ability to ‘deliver the payload’ and using the nano ‘computer bits’ as biosensors in the body. ‘It actually has the ability to accumulate data from your body, like your breathing, your respiration, thoughts, emotions, all kinds of things.’  She said the technology obviously has the ability to operate through Wi-Fi and transmit and receive energy, messages, frequencies or impulses. ‘Just imagine you’re ge ing this new substance in you and it can react to things all around you, the 5G, your smart device, your phones.’ We had something completely foreign in the human body that had never been launched large scale at a time when we were seeing 5G going into schools and hospitals (plus the Musk satellites) and she believed the ‘vaccine’ transmission had something to do with this: ‘… if these people have this inside of them … it can act like an antenna and actually transmit it outwardly as well.’ The synthetic substance produced its own voltage and so it could have that kind of eﬀect. This ﬁts with my own contention that the nano receiver-transmi ers are designed to connect people to the Smart Grid and break the receiver-transmi er connection to expanded consciousness. That would explain the French energy healer’s experience of the disconnection of body from ‘soul’ with those who have had the ‘vaccine’. The nanobots, self-replicating inside the body, would also transmit the synthetic frequency which could be picked up through close interaction by those who have not been ‘vaccinated’. Madej speculated that perhaps it was 5G and increased levels of other radiation that was causing the symptoms directly although interestingly she said that non-‘vaccinated’ patients had shown improvement when they were away from the ‘vaccinated’ person they had interacted with. It must be remembered that you can control frequency and energy with your mind and you can consciously create energetic barriers or bubbles with the mind to stop damaging frequencies from penetrating your ﬁeld. American paediatrician Dr Larry Palevsky said the ‘vaccine’ was not a ‘vaccine’ and was never designed to protect from a ‘viral’ infection. He called it ‘a massive, brilliant propaganda of genocide’ because they didn’t have to inject everyone to get the result they wanted. He said the content of the jabs was able to infuse any material into the brain, heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, sperm and female productive system. ‘This is genocide; this is a weapon of mass destruction.’ At the same time American colleges were banning students from a ending if they didn’t have this life-changing and potentially life-ending ‘vaccine’. Class action lawsuits must follow when the consequences of this college fascism come to light. As the book was going to press came reports about fertility eﬀects on sperm in ‘vaccinated’ men which would absolutely ﬁt with what I have been saying and hospitals continued to ﬁll with ‘vaccine’ reactions. Another question is what about transmission via blood transfusions? The NHS has extended blood donation restrictions from seven days a er a ‘Covid vaccination’ to 28 days a er even a sore arm reaction.  I said in the spring of 2020 that the then touted ‘Covid vaccine’ would be ongoing each year like the ﬂu jab. A year later Pﬁzer CEO, the appalling Albert Bourla, said people would ‘likely’ need a ‘booster dose’ of the ‘vaccine’ within 12 months of ge ing ‘fully vaccinated’ and then a yearly shot. ‘Variants will play a key role’, he said conﬁrming the point. Johnson & Johnson CEO Alex Gorsky also took time out from his ‘vaccine’ disaster to say that people may need to be vaccinated against ‘Covid-19’ each year. UK Health Secretary, the psychopath Ma Hancock, said additional ‘boosters’ would be available in the autumn of 2021. This is the trap of the ‘vaccine passport’. The public will have to accept every last ‘vaccine’ they introduce, including for the fake ‘variants’, or it would cease to be valid. The only other way in some cases would be continuous testing with a test not testing for the ‘virus’ and what is on the swabs constantly pushed up your noise towards the brain every time?

‘Vaccines’ changing behaviour I mentioned in the body of the book how I believed we would see gathering behaviour changes in the ‘vaccinated’ and I am already hearing such comments from the non-‘vaccinated’ describing behaviour changes in friends, loved ones and work colleagues. This will only increase as the self-replicating synthetic material and nanoparticles expand in body and brain. An article in the Guardian in 2016 detailed research at the University of Virginia in Charlo esville which developed a new method for controlling brain circuits associated with complex animal behaviour. The method, dubbed ‘magnetogenetics’, involves genetically-engineering a protein called ferritin, which stores and releases iron, to create a magnetised substance – ‘Magneto’ – that can activate speciﬁc groups of nerve cells from a distance. This is claimed to be an advance on other methods of brain activity manipulation known as optogenetics and chemogenetics (the Cult has been developing methods of brain control for a long time). The ferritin technique is said to be non- invasive and able to activate neurons ‘rapidly and reversibly’. In other words, human thought and perception. The article said that earlier studies revealed how nerve cell proteins ‘activated by heat and mechanical pressure can be genetically engineered so that they become sensitive to radio waves and magnetic ﬁelds, by a aching them to an iron-storing protein called ferritin, or to inorganic paramagnetic particles’. Sensitive to radio waves and magnetic ﬁelds? You mean like 5G, 6G and 7G? This is the human-AI Smart Grid hive mind we are talking about. The Guardian article said:

… the researchers injected Magneto into the striatum of freely behaving mice, a deep brain structure containing dopamine-producing neurons that are involved in reward and motivation, and then placed the animals into an apparatus split into magnetised and non-magnetised sections.

Mice expressing Magneto spent far more time in the magnetised areas than mice that did not, because activation of the protein caused the striatal neurons expressing it to release dopamine, so that the mice found being in those areas rewarding. This shows that Magneto can remotely control the firing of neurons deep within the brain, and also control complex behaviours.


Make no mistake this basic methodology will be part of the ‘Covid vaccine’ cocktail and using magnetics to change brain function through electromagnetic ﬁeld frequency activation. The Pentagon is developing a ‘Covid vaccine’ using ferritin. Magnetics would explain changes in behaviour and why videos are appearing across the Internet as I write showing how magnets stick to the skin at the point of the ‘vaccine’ shot. Once people take these ‘vaccines’ anything becomes possible in terms of brain function and illness which will be blamed on ‘Covid-19’ and ‘variants’. Magnetic ﬁeld manipulation would further explain why the non-‘vaccinated’ are reporting the same symptoms as the ‘vaccinated’ they interact with and why those symptoms are reported to decrease when not in their company. Interestingly ‘Magneto’, a ‘mutant’, is a character in the Marvel Comic X-Men stories with the ability to manipulate magnetic ﬁelds and he believes that mutants should ﬁght back against their human oppressors by any means necessary. The character was born Erik Lehnsherr to a Jewish family in Germany.

Cult-controlled courts The European Court of Human Rights opened the door for mandatory ‘Covid-19 vaccines’ across the continent when it ruled in a Czech Republic dispute over childhood immunisation that legally enforced vaccination could be ‘necessary in a democratic society’. The 17 judges decided that compulsory vaccinations did not breach human rights law. On the face of it the judgement was so inverted you gasp for air. If not having a vaccine infused into your body is not a human right then what is? Ah, but they said human rights law which has been speciﬁcally wri en to delete all human rights at the behest of the state (the Cult). Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights relates to the right to a private life. The crucial word here is ‘except’:

There shall be no interference by a public authority with the exercise of this right EXCEPT such as is in accordance with the law and is necessary in a democratic society in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic wellbeing of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others [My emphasis].


No interference except in accordance with the law means there are no ‘human rights’ except what EU governments decide you can have at their behest. ‘As is necessary in a democratic society’ explains that reference in the judgement and ‘in the interests of national security, public safety or the economic well-being of the country, for the prevention of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others’ gives the EU a coach and horses to ride through ‘human rights’ and sca er them in all directions. The judiciary is not a check and balance on government extremism; it is a vehicle to enforce it. This judgement was almost laughably predictable when the last thing the Cult wanted was a decision that went against mandatory vaccination. Judges rule over and over again to beneﬁt the system of which they are a part. Vaccination disputes that come before them are invariably delivered in favour of doctors and authorities representing the view of the state which owns the judiciary. Oh, yes, and we have even had calls to stop pu ing ‘Covid-19’ on death certiﬁcates within 28 days of a ‘positive test’ because it is claimed the practice makes the ‘vaccine’ appear not to work. They are laughing at you. The scale of madness, inhumanity and things to come was highlighted when those not ‘vaccinated’ for ‘Covid’ were refused evacuation from the Caribbean island of St Vincent during massive volcanic eruptions. Cruise ships taking residents to the safety of another island allowed only the ‘vaccinated’ to board and the rest were le to their fate. Even in life and death situations like this we see ‘Covid’ stripping people of their most basic human instincts and the insanity is even more extreme when you think that fake ‘vaccine’-makers are not even claiming their body-manipulating concoctions stop ‘infection’ and ‘transmission’ of a ‘virus’ that doesn’t exist. St Vincent Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves said: ‘The chief medical oﬃcer will be identifying the persons already vaccinated so that we can get them on the ship.’ Note again the power of the chief medical oﬃcer who, like Whi y in the UK, will be answering to the World Health Organization. This is the Cult network structure that has overridden politicians who ‘follow the science’ which means doing what WHO-controlled ‘medical oﬃcers’ and ‘science advisers’ tell them. Gonsalves even said that residents who were ‘vaccinated’ a er the order so they could board the ships would still be refused entry due to possible side eﬀects such as ‘wooziness in the head’. The good news is that if they were woozy enough in the head they could qualify to be prime minister of St Vincent.

Microchipping freedom The European judgement will be used at some point to justify moves to enforce the ‘Covid’ DNA-manipulating procedure. Sandra Ro, CEO of the Global Blockchain Business Council, told a World Economic Forum event that she hoped ‘vaccine passports’ would help to ‘drive forced consent and standardisation’ of global digital identity schemes: ‘I’m hoping with the desire and global demand for some sort of vaccine passport – so that people can get travelling and working again – [it] will drive forced consent, standardisation, and frankly, cooperation across the world.’ The lady is either not very bright, or thoroughly mendacious, to use the term ‘forced consent’. You do not ‘consent’ if you are forced – you submit. She was describing what the plan has been all along and that’s to enforce a digital identity on every human without which they could not function. ‘Vaccine passports’ are opening the door and are far from the end goal. A digital identity would allow you to be tracked in everything you do in cyberspace and this is the same technique used by Cult-owned China to enforce its social credit system of total control. The ultimate ‘passport’ is planned to be a microchip as my books have warned for nearly 30 years. Those nice people at the Pentagon working for the Cult-controlled Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) claimed in April, 2021, they have developed a microchip inserted under the skin to detect ‘asymptomatic Covid-19 infection’ before it becomes an outbreak and a ‘revolutionary ﬁlter’ that can remove the ‘virus’ from the blood when a ached to a dialysis machine. The only problems with this are that the ‘virus’ does not exist and people transmi ing the ‘virus’ with no symptoms is brain-numbing bullshit. This is, of course, not a ruse to get people to be microchipped for very diﬀerent reasons. DARPA also said it was producing a one-stop ‘vaccine’ for the ‘virus’ and all ‘variants’. One of the most sinister organisations on Planet Earth is doing this? Be er have it then. These people are insane because Wetiko that possesses them is insane.  Researchers from the Salk Institute in California announced they have created an embryo that is part human and part monkey. My books going back to the 1990s have exposed experiments in top secret underground facilities in the United States where humans are being crossed with animal and non-human ‘extraterrestrial’ species. They are now easing that long-developed capability into the public arena and there is much more to come given we are dealing with psychiatric basket cases. Talking of which – Elon Musk’s scientists at Neuralink trained a monkey to play Pong and other puzzles on a computer screen using a joystick and when the monkey made the correct move a metal tube squirted banana smoothie into his mouth which is the basic technique for training humans into unquestioning compliance. Two Neuralink chips were in the monkey’s skull and more than 2,000 wires ‘fanned out’ into its brain. Eventually the monkey played a video game purely with its brain waves. Psychopathic narcissist Musk said the ‘breakthrough’ was a step towards pu ing Neuralink chips into human skulls and merging minds with artiﬁcial intelligence. Exactly. This man is so dark and Cult to his DNA.

World Economic Fascism (WEF) The World Economic Forum is telling you the plan by the statements made at its many and various events. Cult-owned fascist YouTube CEO Susan Wojcicki spoke at the 2021 WEF Global Technology Governance Summit (see the name) in which 40 governments and 150 companies met to ensure ‘the responsible design and deployment of emerging technologies’. Orwellian translation: ‘Ensuring the design and deployment of long-planned technologies will advance the Cult agenda for control and censorship.’ Freedom- destroyer and Nuremberg-bound Wojcicki expressed support for tech platforms like hers to censor content that is ‘technically legal but could be harmful’. Who decides what is ‘harmful’? She does and they do. ‘Harmful’ will be whatever the Cult doesn’t want people to see and we have legislation proposed by the UK government that would censor content on the basis of ‘harm’ no ma er if the information is fair, legal and provably true. Make that especially if it is fair, legal and provably true. Wojcicki called for a global coalition to be formed to enforce content moderation standards through automated censorship. This is a woman and mega-censor so self- deluded that she shamelessly accepted a ‘free expression’ award – Wojcicki – in an event sponsored by her own YouTube. They have no shame and no self-awareness.  You know that ‘Covid’ is a scam and Wojcicki a Cult operative when YouTube is censoring medical and scientiﬁc opinion purely on the grounds of whether it supports or opposes the Cult ‘Covid’ narrative. Florida governor Ron DeSantis compiled an expert panel with four professors of medicine from Harvard, Oxford, and Stanford Universities who spoke against forcing children and vaccinated people to wear masks. They also said there was no proof that lockdowns reduced spread or death rates of ‘Covid-19’. Cult- gofer Wojcicki and her YouTube deleted the panel video ‘because it included content that contradicts the consensus of local and global health authorities regarding the eﬃcacy of masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19’. This ‘consensus’ refers to what the Cult tells the World Health Organization to say and the WHO tells ‘local health authorities’ to do. Wojcicki knows this, of course. The panellists pointed out that censorship of scientiﬁc debate was responsible for deaths from many causes, but Wojcicki couldn’t care less. She would not dare go against what she is told and as a disgrace to humanity she wouldn’t want to anyway. The UK government is seeking to pass a fascist ‘Online Safety Bill’ to speciﬁcally target with massive ﬁnes and other means non-censored video and social media platforms to make them censor ‘lawful but harmful’ content like the Cult-owned Facebook, Twi er, Google and YouTube. What is ‘lawful but harmful’ would be decided by the fascist Blair-created Ofcom.  Another WEF obsession is a cyber-a ack on the ﬁnancial system and this is clearly what the Cult has planned to take down the bank accounts of everyone – except theirs. Those that think they have enough money for the Cult agenda not to ma er to them have got a big lesson coming if they continue to ignore what is staring them in the face. The World Economic Forum, funded by Gates and fronted by Klaus Schwab, announced it would be running a ‘simulation’ with the Russian government and global banks of just such an a ack called Cyber Polygon 2021. What they simulate – as with the ‘Covid’ Event 201 – they plan to instigate. The WEF is involved in a project with the Cult-owned Carnegie Endowment for International Peace called the WEF-Carnegie Cyber Policy Initiative which seeks to merge Wall Street banks, ‘regulators’ (I love it) and intelligence agencies to ‘prevent’ (arrange and allow) a cyber-a ack that would bring down the global ﬁnancial system as long planned by those that control the WEF and the Carnegie operation. The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace sent an instruction to First World War US President Woodrow Wilson not to let the war end before society had been irreversibly transformed.

The Wuhan lab diversion As I close, the Cult-controlled authorities and lapdog media are systematically pushing ‘the virus was released from the Wuhan lab’ narrative. There are two versions – it happened by accident and it happened on purpose. Both are nonsense. The perceived existence of the never-shown-to-exist ‘virus’ is vital to sell the impression that there is actually an infective agent to deal with and to allow the endless potential for terrifying the population with ‘variants’ of a ‘virus’ that does not exist. The authorities at the time of writing are going with the ‘by accident’ while the alternative media is promoting the ‘on purpose’. Cable news host Tucker Carlson who has questioned aspects of lockdown and ‘vaccine’ compulsion has bought the Wuhan lab story. ‘Everyone now agrees’ he said. Well, I don’t and many others don’t and the question is why does the system and its media suddenly ‘agree’? When the media moves as one unit with a narrative it is always a lie – witness the hour by hour mendacity of the ‘Covid’ era. Why would this Cult-owned combination which has unleashed lies like machine gun ﬁre suddenly ‘agree’ to tell the truth??  Much of the alternative media is buying the lie because it ﬁts the conspiracy narrative, but it’s the wrong conspiracy. The real conspiracy is that there is no virus and that is what the Cult is desperate to hide. The idea that the ‘virus’ was released by accident is ludicrous when the whole ‘Covid’ hoax was clearly long-planned and waiting to be played out as it was so fast in accordance with the Rockefeller document and Event 201. So they prepared everything in detail over decades and then sat around strumming their ﬁngers waiting for an ‘accidental’ release from a bio-lab? What?? It’s crazy. Then there’s the ‘on purpose’ claim. You want to circulate a ‘deadly virus’ and hide the fact that you’ve done so and you release it down the street from the highest-level bio-lab in China? I repeat – What?? You would release it far from that lab to stop any association being made. But, no, we’ll do it in a place where the connection was certain to be made. Why would you need to scam ‘cases’ and ‘deaths’ and pay hospitals to diagnose ‘Covid-19’ if you had a real ‘virus’? What are sections of the alternative media doing believing this crap? Where were all the mass deaths in Wuhan from a ‘deadly pathogen’ when the recovery to normal life a er the initial propaganda was dramatic in speed? Why isn’t the ‘deadly pathogen’ now circulating all over China with bodies in the street? Once again we have the technique of tell them what they want to hear and they will likely believe it. The alternative media has its ‘conspiracy’ and with Carlson it ﬁts with his ‘China is the danger’ narrative over years. China is a danger as a global Cult operations centre, but not for this reason. The Wuhan lab story also has the potential to instigate conﬂict with China when at some stage the plan is to trigger a Problem-Reaction-Solution confrontation with the West. Question everything – everything – and especially when the media agrees on a common party line.

Third wave … fourth wave … fifth wave … As the book went into production the world was being set up for more lockdowns and a ‘third wave’ supported by invented ‘variants’ that were increasing all the time and will continue to do so in public statements and computer programs, but not in reality. India became the new Italy in the ‘Covid’ propaganda campaign and we were told to be frightened of the new ‘Indian strain’. Somehow I couldn’t ﬁnd it within myself to do so. A document produced for the UK government entitled ‘Summary of further modelling of easing of restrictions – Roadmap Step 2’ declared that a third wave was inevitable (of course when it’s in the script) and it would be the fault of children and those who refuse the health-destroying fake ‘Covid vaccine’. One of the computer models involved came from the Cult- owned Imperial College and the other from Warwick University which I wouldn’t trust to tell me the date in a calendar factory. The document states that both models presumed extremely high uptake of the ‘Covid vaccines’ and didn’t allow for ‘variants’. The document states: ‘The resurgence is a result of some people (mostly children) being ineligible for vaccination; others choosing not to receive the vaccine; and others being vaccinated but not perfectly protected.’ The mendacity takes the breath away. Okay, blame those with a brain who won’t take the DNA-modifying shots and put more pressure on children to have it as ‘trials’ were underway involving children as young as six months with parents who give insanity a bad name. Massive pressure is being put on the young to have the fake ‘vaccine’ and child age consent limits have been systematically lowered around the world to stop parents intervening. Most extraordinary about the document was its claim that the ‘third wave’ would be driven by ‘the resurgence in both hospitalisations and deaths … dominated by those that have received two doses of the vaccine, comprising around 60-70% of the wave respectively’. The predicted peak of the ‘third wave’ suggested 300 deaths per day with 250 of them fully ‘vaccinated’ people. How many more lies do acquiescers need to be told before they see the obvious? Those who took the jab to ‘protect themselves’ are projected to be those who mostly get sick and die? So what’s in the ‘vaccine’? The document went on:

It is possible that a summer of low prevalence could be followed by substantial increases in incidence over the following autumn and winter. Low prevalence in late summer should not be taken as an indication that SARS-CoV-2 has retreated or that the population has high enough levels of immunity to prevent another wave.


They are telling you the script and while many British people believed ‘Covid’ restrictions would end in the summer of 2021 the government was preparing for them to be ongoing. Authorities were awarding contracts for ‘Covid marshals’ to police the restrictions with contracts starting in July, 2021, and going through to January 31st, 2022, and the government was advertising for ‘Media Buying Services’ to secure media propaganda slots worth a potential £320 million for ‘Covid-19 campaigns’ with a contract not ending until March, 2022. The recipient – via a list of other front companies – was reported to be American media marketing giant Omnicom Group Inc. While money is no object for ‘Covid’ the UK waiting list for all other treatment – including life-threatening conditions – passed 4.5 million. Meantime the Cult is seeking to control all oﬃcial ‘inquiries’ to block revelations about what has really been happening and why. It must not be allowed to – we need Nuremberg jury trials in every country. The cover-up doesn’t get more obvious than appointing ultra-Zionist professor Philip Zelikow to oversee two dozen US virologists, public health oﬃcials, clinicians, former government oﬃcials and four American ‘charitable foundations’ to ‘learn the lessons’ of the ‘Covid’ debacle. The personnel will be those that created and perpetuated the ‘Covid’ lies while Zelikow is the former executive director of the 9/11 Commission who ensured that the truth about those a acks never came out and produced a report that must be among the most mendacious and manipulative documents ever wri en – see The Trigger for the detailed exposure of the almost unimaginable 9/11 story in which Sabbatians can be found at every level.

Passive no more People are increasingly challenging the authorities with amazing numbers of people taking to the streets in London well beyond the ability of the Face-Nappies to stop them. Instead the Nappies choose situations away from the mass crowds to target, intimidate, and seek to promote the impression of ‘violent protestors’. One such incident happened in London’s Hyde Park. Hundreds of thousands walking through the streets in protest against ‘Covid’ fascism were ignored by the Cult-owned BBC and most of the rest of the mainstream media, but they delighted in reporting how police were injured in ‘clashes with protestors’. The truth was that a group of people gathered in Hyde Park at the end of one march when most had gone home and they were peacefully having a good time with music and chat. Face-Nappies who couldn’t deal with the full-march crowd then waded in with their batons and got more than they bargained for. Instead of just standing for this criminal brutality the crowd used their numerical superiority to push the Face-Nappies out of the park. Eventually the Nappies turned and ran. Unfortunately two or three idiots in the crowd threw drink cans striking two oﬃcers which gave the media and the government the image they wanted to discredit the 99.9999 percent who were peaceful. The idiots walked straight into the trap and we must always be aware of potential agent provocateurs used by the authorities to discredit their targets.  This response from the crowd – the can people apart – must be a turning point when the public no longer stand by while the innocent are arrested and brutally a acked by the Face-Nappies. That doesn’t mean to be violent, that’s the last thing we need. We’ll leave the violence to the Face-Nappies and government. But it does mean that when the Face-Nappies use violence against peaceful people the numerical superiority is employed to stop them and make citizen’s arrests or Common Law arrests for a breach of the peace. The time for being passive in the face of fascism is over.  We are the many, they are the few, and we need to make that count before there is no freedom le and our children and grandchildren face an ongoing fascist nightmare.  COME ON PEOPLE – IT’S TIME.



One final thought …




 The power of love A force from above  Cleaning my soul  Flame on burn desire Love with tongues of ﬁre  Purge the soul Make love your goal  I’ll protect you from the hooded claw  Keep the vampires from your door When the chips are down I’ll be around With my undying, death-defying  Love for you


 Envy will hurt itself Let yourself be beautiful  Sparkling love, ﬂowers  And pearls and pre y girls Love is like an energy  Rushin’ rushin’ inside of me


This time we go sublime  Lovers entwine, divine, divine,  Love is danger, love is pleasure  Love is pure – the only treasure


I’m so in love with you Purge the soul Make love your goal


The power of love  A force from above Cleaning my soul The power of love  A force from above  A sky-scraping dove Flame on burn desire  Love with tongues of ﬁre Purge the soul  Make love your goal


Frankie Goes To Hollywood Appendix

Cowan-Kaufman-Morell Statement on Virus Isolation  (SOVI)

Isolation: The action of isolating; the fact or condition of being  isolated or standing alone; separation from other things or persons;  solitariness  Oxford English Dictionary



The controversy over whether the SARS-CoV-2 virus has ever  been isolated or puriﬁed continues. However, using the above deﬁnition, common sense, the laws of logic and the dictates of science, any unbiased person must come to the conclusion that the SARS-CoV-2 virus has never been isolated or puriﬁed. As a result, no conﬁrmation of the virus’ existence can be found. The logical, common sense, and scientiﬁc consequences of this fact are:

• the structure and composition of something not shown to exist can’t be known, including the presence, structure, and function of any hypothetical spike or other proteins; • the genetic sequence of something that has never been found can’t be known; • “variants” of something that hasn’t been shown to exist can’t be known; • it’s impossible to demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 causes a disease called Covid-19.  In as concise terms as possible, here’s the proper way to isolate, characterize and demonstrate a new virus. First, one takes samples (blood, sputum, secretions) from many people (e.g. 500) with symptoms which are unique and speciﬁc enough to characterize an illness. Without mixing these samples with ANY tissue or products that also contain genetic material, the virologist macerates, ﬁlters and ultracentrifuges i.e. purifies the specimen. This common virology technique, done for decades to isolate bacteriophages1 and so-called giant viruses in every virology lab, then allows the virologist to demonstrate with electron microscopy thousands of identically sized and shaped particles. These particles are the isolated and puriﬁed virus.  These identical particles are then checked for uniformity by physical and/or microscopic techniques. Once the purity is determined, the particles may be further characterized. This would include examining the structure, morphology, and chemical composition of the particles. Next, their genetic makeup is characterized by extracting the genetic material directly from the puriﬁed particles and using genetic-sequencing techniques, such as Sanger sequencing, that have also been around for decades. Then one does an analysis to conﬁrm that these uniform particles are exogenous (outside) in origin as a virus is conceptualized to be, and not the normal breakdown products of dead and dying tissues.2 (As of May 2020, we know that virologists have no way to determine whether the particles they’re seeing are viruses or just normal break- down products of dead and dying tissues.)3

1 Isolation, characterization and analysis of bacteriophages from the haloalkaline lake Elmenteita, KenyaJuliah Khayeli Akhwale et al, PLOS One, Published: April 25, 2019. https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0215734 – accessed 2/15/21 2 “Extracellular Vesicles Derived From Apoptotic Cells: An Essential Link Between Death and Regeneration,” Maojiao Li1 et al, Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology, 2020 October 2. https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fcell.2020.573511/full – accessed 2/15/21 3 “The Role of Extraellular Vesicles as Allies of HIV, HCV and SARS Viruses,” Flavia Giannessi, et al, Viruses, 2020 May


 If we have come this far then we have fully isolated, characterized, and genetically sequenced an exogenous virus particle. However, we still have to show it is causally related to a disease. This is carried out by exposing a group of healthy subjects (animals are usually used) to this isolated, puriﬁed virus in the manner in which the disease is thought to be transmi ed. If the animals get sick with the same disease, as conﬁrmed by clinical and autopsy ﬁndings, one has now shown that the virus actually causes a disease. This demonstrates infectivity and transmission of an infectious agent.

None of these steps has even been a empted with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, nor have all these steps been successfully performed for any so-called pathogenic virus. Our research indicates that a single study showing these steps does not exist in the medical literature.

Instead, since 1954, virologists have taken unpuriﬁed samples from a relatively few people, o en less than ten, with a similar disease. They then minimally process this sample and inoculate this unpuriﬁed sample onto tissue culture containing usually four to six other types of material – all of which contain identical genetic material as to what is called a “virus.” The tissue culture is starved and poisoned and naturally disintegrates into many types of particles, some of which contain genetic material. Against all common sense, logic, use of the English language and scientiﬁc integrity, this process is called “virus isolation.” This brew containing fragments of genetic material from many sources is then subjected to genetic analysis, which then creates in a computer- simulation process the alleged sequence of the alleged virus, a so called in silico genome. At no time is an actual virus conﬁrmed by electron microscopy. At no time is a genome extracted and sequenced from an actual virus. This is scientiﬁc fraud.  The observation that the unpuriﬁed specimen — inoculated onto tissue culture along with toxic antibiotics, bovine fetal tissue, amniotic ﬂuid and other tissues — destroys the kidney tissue onto which it is inoculated is given as evidence of the virus’ existence and pathogenicity. This is scientiﬁc fraud.

From now on, when anyone gives you a paper that suggests the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been isolated, please check the methods sections. If the researchers used Vero cells or any other culture method, you know that their process was not isolation. You will hear the following excuses for why actual isolation isn’t done:

1. There were not enough virus particles found in samples from patients to analyze.

2. Viruses are intracellular parasites; they can’t be found outside the cell in this manner.


If No. 1 is correct, and we can’t ﬁnd the virus in the sputum of sick people, then on what evidence do we think the virus is dangerous or even lethal? If No. 2 is correct, then how is the virus spread from person to person? We are told it emerges from the cell to infect others. Then why isn’t it possible to ﬁnd it?

 Finally, questioning these virology techniques and conclusions is not some distraction or divisive issue. Shining the light on this truth is essential to stop this terrible fraud that humanity is confronting. For, as we now know, if the virus has never been isolated, sequenced or shown to cause illness, if the virus is imaginary, then why are we wearing masks, social distancing and pu ing the whole world into prison?

Finally, if pathogenic viruses don’t exist, then what is going into those injectable devices erroneously called “vaccines,” and what is their purpose? This scientiﬁc question is the most urgent and relevant one of our time. We are correct. The SARS-CoV2 virus does not exist.

Sally Fallon Morell, MA Dr. Thomas Cowan, MD Dr. Andrew Kaufman, MD Bibliography

Alinsky, Saul: Rules for Radicals (Vintage, 1989) Antelman, Rabbi Marvin: To Eliminate the Opiate (Zahavia, 1974) Bastardi , Joe: The Climate Chronicles (Relentless Thunder Press, 2018) Cowan, Tom: Human Heart, Cosmic Heart (Chelsea Green Publishing, 2016) Cowan , Tom, and Fallon Morell, Sally: The Contagion Myth (Skyhorse Publishing, 2020) Forbes,Jack D: Columbus And Other Cannibals – The Wetiko Disease of Exploitation,  Imperialism, and Terrorism (Seven Stories Press, 2008 – originally published in 1979) Gates,Bill: How to Avoid a Climate Disaster: The Solutions We Have and the Breakthroughs We  Need (Allen Lane, 2021) Huxley,Aldous: Brave New World (Cha o & Windus, 1932) Köhnlein,Dr Claus, and Engelbrecht, Torsten: Virus Mania (emu-Vertag, Lahnstein, 2020) Lanza,Robert, and Berman, Bob: Biocentrism (BenBella Books, 2010) Lash, John Lamb: Not In His Image (Chelsea Green Publishing, 2006) Dawn, and Parker, David: What Really Makes You Ill – Why everything you thought you Lester,

 knew about disease is wrong (Independently Published, 2019) Levy, Paul: Dispelling Wetiko, Breaking the Spell of Evil (North Atlantic Books, 2013) Marx,Karl: A World Without Jews (Philosophical Library, ﬁrst edition, 1959) Mullis, Kary: Dancing Naked in the Mine Field (Bloomsbury, 1999) O’Brien,Cathy: Trance-Formation of America (Reality Marketing, 1995) Scholem,Gershon: The Messianic Idea in Judaism (Schocken Books, 1994) Schwab,Klaus, and Davis, Nicholas: Shaping the Future of the Fourth Industrial Revolution: A  guide to building a better world (Penguin Books, 2018) Schwab, Klaus: The Great Reset (Agentur Schweiz, 2020) Sunstein,Cass and Thaler, Richard: Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and  Happiness (Penguin, 2009) Swan,Shanna: Count Down: How Our Modern World Is Threatening Sperm Counts, Altering  Male and Female Reproductive Development and Imperiling the Future of the Human Race  (Scribner, 2021) Tegmark, Max: Our Mathematical Universe: My Quest for the Ultimate Nature of Reality  (Penguin, 2015) Velikovsky,Immanuel: Worlds in Collision (Paradigma, 2009) Wilton, Robert: The Last Days of the Romanovs (Blurb, 2018, ﬁrst published 1920)  Index

A abusive relationships

blaming themselves, abused as ref1 children ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 conspiracy theories ref1 domestic abuse ref1, ref2 economic abuse and dependency ref1 isolation ref1 physical abuse ref1 psychological abuse ref1 signs of abuse ref1 addiction

 alcoholism ref1  frequencies ref1  substance abuse ref1, ref2  technology ref1, ref2, ref3 Adelson, Sheldon ref1, ref2, ref3

Agenda 21/Agenda 2030 (UN) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

AIDs/HIV ref1

 causal link between HIV and AIDs ref1, ref2

retroviruses ref1  testing ref1, ref2  trial-run for Covid-19, as ref1, ref2 aliens/extraterrestrials ref1, ref2

aluminium ref1

Amazon ref1, ref2, ref3 amplification cycles ref1, ref2 anaphylactic shock ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

animals ref1, ref2, ref3

antibodies ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Antifa ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

antigens ref1, ref2

anti-Semitism ref1, ref2, ref3

Archons ref1, ref2

consciousness ref1, ref2, ref3 energy ref1, ref2, ref3 ennoia ref1 genetic manipulation ref1, ref2 inversion ref1, ref2, ref3 lockdowns ref1 money ref1 radiation ref1 religion ref1, ref2 technology ref1, ref2, ref3 Wetiko factor ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 artificial intelligence (AI) ref1

army made up of robots ref1, ref2

Human 2.0 ref1, ref2 Internet ref1 MHRA ref1 Morgellons ﬁbres ref1, ref2 Smart Grid ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 asymptomatic, Covid-19 as ref1, ref2, ref3

aviation industry ref1




B banking, finance and moneyref1, ref2, ref3 2008 crisis ref1, ref2 boom and bust ref1 cashless digital money systems ref1 central banks ref1 credit ref1 digital currency ref1 fractional reserve lending ref1 Great Reset ref1 guaranteed income ref1, ref2, ref3 Human 2.0 ref1 incomes, destruction of ref1, ref2 interest ref1 one per cent ref1, ref2 scams ref1 BBC ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Becker-Phelps, Leslie ref1

Behavioural Insights Team (BIT) (Nudge Unit)ref1, ref2, ref3 behavioural scientists and psychologists, advice from ref1, ref2

Bezos, Jeff ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Biden, Hunter ref1

Biden, Joe ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11,

ref12, ref13, ref14, ref15, ref16, ref17 Big Pharma

cholesterol ref1 health professionals ref1, ref2 immunity from prosecution in US ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8 Wetiko factor ref1, ref2 WHO ref1, ref2, ref3 Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6,

 ref7 billionaires ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9 ref10, ref11 bird flu (H5N1) ref1

Black Lives Matter (BLM) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Blair, Tony ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Brin, Sergei ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

British Empire ref1

Bush, George HW ref1, ref2

Bush, George W ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Byrd, Robert ref1




C Canada

Global Cult ref1 hate speech ref1 internment ref1 masks ref1 old people ref1 SARS-COV-2 ref1 satellites ref1 vaccines ref1 wearable technology ref1 Capitol Hill riot ref1, ref2

agents provocateur ref1 Antifa ref1 Black Lives Ma er (BLM) ref1, ref2 QAnon ref1 security precautions, lack of ref1, ref2, ref3 carbon dioxide ref1, ref2

care homes, deaths in ref1, ref2

cashless digital money systems ref1

censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 fact-checkers ref1 masks ref1 media ref1, ref2 private messages ref1 social media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 transgender persons ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3 Wokeness ref1 Centers for Disease Control (CDC) (United States) ref1, ref2, ref3,

 ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12, ref13 centralisation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

chakras ref1

change agents ref1, ref2, ref3

chemtrails ref1, ref2, ref3

chief medical officers and scientific advisers ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

 ref5, ref6 children see also young people

abuse ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 care, taken into ref1, ref2, ref3 education ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 energy ref1 family courts ref1 hand sanitisers ref1 human sacriﬁce ref1 lockdowns ref1, ref2, ref3 masks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 mental health ref1 old people ref1 parents, replacement of ref1, ref2 Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1, ref2 reframing ref1 smartphone addiction ref1 social distancing and isolation ref1 social media ref1 transgender persons ref1, ref2 United States ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 Wetiko factor ref1 China ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

anal swab tests ref1 Chinese Revolution ref1, ref2, ref3

digital currency ref1 Global Cult ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9 guaranteed income ref1 Imperial College ref1 Israel ref1 lockdown ref1, ref2 masculinity crisis ref1 masks ref1 media ref1 origins of virus in China ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 pollution causing respiratory diseases ref1 Sabbatians ref1, ref2 Smart Grid ref1, ref2 social credit system ref1 testing ref1, ref2 United States ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1, ref2 Wetiko factor ref1 wet market conspiracy ref1 Wuhan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 cholesterol ref1, ref2

Christianity ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

criticism ref1 cross, inversion of the ref1  Nag Hammadi texts ref1, ref2, ref3  Roman Catholic Church ref1, ref2  Sabbatians ref1, ref2  Satan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  Wokeness ref1 class ref1, ref2

climate change hoax ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

 Agenda 21/Agenda 2030 ref1, ref2, ref3  carbon dioxide ref1, ref2  Club of Rome ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5  fear ref1  funding ref1  Global Cult ref1  green new deals ref1  green parties ref1  inversion ref1  perception, control of ref1  PICC ref1  reframing ref1  temperature, increases in ref1  United Nations ref1, ref2  Wikipedia ref1  Wokeness ref1, ref2 Clinton, Bill ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Clinton, Hillary ref1, ref2, ref3

the cloud ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Club of Rome and climate change hoax ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

cognitive therapy ref1

Cohn, Roy ref1

Common Law ref1

 Admiralty Law ref1  arrests ref1, ref2 contractual law, Statute Law as ref1 corporate entities, people as ref1 legalese ref1 sea, law of the ref1 Statute Law ref1 Common Purpose leadership programme ref1, ref2 communism ref1, ref2 co-morbidities ref1

computer-generated virus,

Covid-19 as ref1, ref2, ref3 computer models ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

connections ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

consciousness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

 Archons ref1, ref2, ref3  expanded ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7  experience ref1  heart ref1  inﬁnity ref1, ref2  religion ref1, ref2  self-identity ref1  simulation thesis ref1  vaccines ref1  Wetiko factor ref1, ref2 conspiracy theorists ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

contradictory rules ref1

contrails ref1

Corman-Drosten test ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

countermimicry ref1, ref2, ref3

Covid-19 vaccines see vaccines

Covidiots ref1, ref2

Cowan, Tom ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

crimes against humanity ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8 cyber-operations ref1 cyberwarfare ref1




D DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)ref1 deaths

care homes ref1 certiﬁcates ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 mortality rate ref1 post-mortems/autopsies ref1 recording ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 deceit

pyramid of deceit ref1, ref2 sequence of deceit ref1 decoding ref1, ref2, ref3

dehumanisation ref1, ref2, ref3

Delphi technique ref1

democracy ref1

dependency ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Descartes, René ref1

DNA

numbers ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 DNR (do not resuscitate)

orders ref1 domestic abuse ref1, ref2

downgrading of Covid-19 ref1

Drosten, Christian ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Duesberg, Peter ref1, ref2 E economic abuse ref1 Edmunds, John ref1, ref2

education ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

electromagnetic spectrum ref1, ref2

Enders, John ref1

energy

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3 children and young people ref1 consciousness ref1 decoding ref1 frequencies ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 heart ref1 human energy ﬁeld ref1 source, humans as an energy ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1 viruses ref1 ennoia ref1

Epstein, Jeffrey ref1, ref2

eternal ‘I’ ref1, ref2

ethylene oxide ref1

European Union ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Event ref1 and Bill Gates ref2

exosomes, Covid-19 as natural defence mechanism called ref1

experience ref1, ref2

Extinction Rebellion ref1, ref2




F Facebook

addiction ref1, 448–50 Facebook  Archons ref1  censorship ref1, ref2, ref3  hate speech ref1  monopoly, as ref1  private messages, censorship of ref1  Sabbatians ref1  United States election fraud ref1  vaccines ref1  Wetiko factor ref1 fact-checkers ref1

Fauci, Anthony ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

ref11, ref12 fear ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

 climate change ref1  computer models ref1  conspiracy theories ref1  empty hospitals ref1  Italy ref1, ref2, ref3  lockdowns ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  masks ref1, ref2  media ref1, ref2  medical staﬀ ref1  Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1  Wetiko factor ref1, ref2 female infertility ref1

Fermi Paradox ref1

Ferguson, Neil ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

fertility, decline in ref1

The Field ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

finance see banking, finance and money

five-senses ref1, ref2

 Archons ref1, ref2, ref3 censorship ref1 consciousness, expansion of ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 decoding ref1 education ref1, ref2 the Field ref1, ref2 God, personiﬁcation of ref1 inﬁnity ref1, ref2 media ref1 paranormal ref1 perceptual programming ref1, ref2 Phantom Self ref1 pneuma not nous, using ref1 reincarnation ref1 self-identity ref1 Wetiko factor ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 5G ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Floyd, George and protests, killing of ref1

flu, re-labelling of ref1, ref2, ref3

food and water, control of ref1, ref2

Freemasons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Frei, Rosemary ref1

frequencies

addictions ref1 Archons ref1, ref2, ref3 awareness ref1 chanting and mantras ref1 consciousness ref1 decoding ref1, ref2 education ref1 electromagnetic (EMF) frequencies ref1 energy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 fear ref1 the Field ref1, ref2 5G ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 ﬁve-senses ref1, ref2 ghosts ref1 Gnostics ref1 hive-minds ref1 human, meaning of ref1 light ref1, ref2 love ref1, ref2 magnetism ref1 perception ref1 reality ref1, ref2, ref3 simulation ref1 terror ref1 vaccines ref1 Wetiko ref1, ref2, ref3 Fuellmich, Reiner ref1, ref2, ref3

furlough/rescue payments ref1




G Gallo, Robert ref1, ref2, ref3 Gates, Bill

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3 climate change ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Daily Pass tracking system ref1 Epstein ref1 fascism ref1 ﬁve senses ref1 GAVI ref1 Great Reset ref1 GSK ref1 Imperial College ref1, ref2 Johns Hopkins University ref1, ref2, ref3 lockdowns ref1, ref2 masks ref1 Nuremberg trial, proposal for ref1, ref2 Rockefellers ref1, ref2 social distancing and isolation ref1 Sun, dimming the ref1 synthetic meat ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 Wellcome Trust ref1 Wetiko factor ref1, ref2, ref3 WHO ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 Wokeness ref1 World Economic Forum ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Gates, Melinda ref1, ref2, ref3

GAVI vaccine alliance ref1

genetics, manipulation of ref1, ref2, ref3

Germany ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 see also Nazi Germany

Global Cult ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

anti-human, why Global Cult is ref1 Black Lives Ma er (BLM) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 China ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9 climate change hoax ref1 contradictory rules ref1 Covid-19 ref1, ref2, ref3 fascism ref1 geographical origins ref1 immigration ref1 Internet ref1 mainstream media ref1, ref2 masks ref1, ref2 monarchy ref1 non-human dimension ref1 perception ref1 political parties ref1, ref2 pyramidal hierarchy ref1, ref2, ref3 reframing ref1 Sabbantian-Frankism ref1, ref2 science, manipulation of ref1 spider and the web ref1 transgender persons ref1 vaccines ref1 who controls the Cult ref1 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 globalisation ref1, ref2

Gnostics ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Google ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

government

behavioural scientists and psychologists, advice from ref1, ref2 deﬁnition ref1 Joint Biosecurity Centre (JBC) ref1 people, abusive relationship with ref1 Great Reset ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

fascism ref1, ref2, ref3 ﬁnancial system ref1 Human 2.0 ref1 water and food, control of ref1 green parties ref1

Griesz-Brisson, Margarite ref1

guaranteed income ref1, ref2, ref3




H Hancock, Mattref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 hand sanitisers ref1

heart ref1, ref2 hive-minds/groupthinkref1, ref2, ref3 holographs ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

hospitals, empty ref1

human, meaning of ref1

Human 2.0 ref1

addiction to technology ref1 artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) ref1, ref2 elimination of Human 1.0 ref1 fertility, decline in ref1 Great Reset ref1 implantables ref1 money ref1 mRNA ref1 nanotechnology ref1 parents, replacement of ref1, ref2 Smart Grid, connection to ref1, ref2 synthetic biology ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 testosterone levels, decrease in ref1 transgender = transhumanism ref1, ref2, ref3 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 human sacrifice ref1, ref2, ref3

Hunger Games Society ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Huxley, Aldous ref1, ref2, ref3




I identity politics ref1, ref2, ref3 Illuminati ref1, ref2

illusory physical reality ref1

immigration ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Imperial College ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

implantables ref1, ref2 incomes, destruction of ref1, ref2 Infinite Awareness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Internet ref1, ref2 see also social media

artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) ref1 independent journalism, lack of ref1 Internet of Bodies (IoB) ref1 Internet of Everything (IoE) ref1, ref2

Internet of Things (IoT) ref1, ref2

lockdowns ref1

Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1 trolls ref1 intersectionality ref1

inversion

Archons ref1, ref2, ref3 climate change hoax ref1 energy ref1 Judaism ref1, ref2, ref3 symbolism ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3 Islam

Archons ref1 crypto-Jews ref1 Islamic State ref1, ref2 Jinn and Djinn ref1, ref2, ref3 O oman Empire ref1 Wahhabism ref1 isolation see social distancing and isolation

Israel

China ref1 Cyber Intelligence Unit Beersheba complex ref1 expansion of illegal se lements ref1 formation ref1 Global Cult ref1 Judaism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 medical experiments, consent for ref1 Mossad ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Palestine-Israel conﬂict ref1, ref2, ref3 parents, replacement of ref1 Sabbatians ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 September 11, 2001, terrorist a acks on United States ref1 Silicon Valley ref1 Smart Grid ref1, ref2 United States ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 Italy

fear ref1, ref2, ref3 Lombardy ref1, ref2, ref3 vaccines ref1


J Johns Hopkins University ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 Johnson, Boris ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Joint Biosecurity Centre (JBC) ref1

Judaism

anti-Semitism ref1, ref2, ref3 Archons ref1, ref2 crypto-Jews ref1 inversion ref1, ref2, ref3 Israel ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Labour Party ref1 Nazi Germany ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Sabbatians ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Silicon Valley ref1 Torah ref1 United States ref1, ref2 Zionists ref1, ref2, ref3


K Kaufman, Andrewref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 knowledge ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Koch’s postulates ref1

Kurzweil, Ray ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Kushner, Jared ref1, ref2




L Labour Party ref1, ref2 Lanka, Stefan ref1, ref2

Lateral Flow Device (LFD) ref1 Levy, Paulref1, ref2, ref3 Life Program ref1

lockdowns ref1, ref2, ref3

ampliﬁcation tampering ref1 Archons ref1 Behavioural Insights Team ref1 Black Lives Ma er (BLM) ref1 care homes, deaths in ref1 children abuse ref1, ref2 mental health ref1 China ref1, ref2 computer models ref1 consequences ref1, ref2 dependency ref1, ref2, ref3 domestic abuse ref1 fall in cases ref1 fear ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 guaranteed income ref1 Hunger Games Society ref1, ref2, ref3 interaction, destroying ref1 Internet ref1, ref2 overdoses ref1 perception ref1 police-military state ref1, ref2 protests ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 psychopathic personality ref1, ref2, ref3 reporting/snitching, encouragement of ref1, ref2 testing ref1 vaccines ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 WHO ref1 love ref1, ref2, ref3

Lucifer ref1, ref2, ref3




M Madej, Carrieref1, ref2 Magufuli, John ref1, ref2

mainstream media ref1

 BBC ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8  censorship ref1, ref2  China ref1  climate change hoax ref1  fear ref1, ref2  Global Cult ref1, ref2  independent journalism, lack of ref1  Ofcom ref1, ref2, ref3  perception ref1, ref2  Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1  Sabbatians ref1, ref2  social disapproval ref1  social distancing and isolation ref1  United States ref1, ref2  vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Mao Zedong ref1, ref2, ref3

Marx and Marxism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

masculinity ref1

masks/face coverings ref1, ref2, ref3

 censorship ref1  children ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5  China, made in ref1  dehumanisation ref1, ref2, ref3  fear ref1, ref2  ﬂu ref1  health professionals ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  isolation ref1  laughter ref1 mass non-cooperation ref1

microplastics, risk of ref1

mind control ref1

multiple masks ref1

oxygen deﬁciency ref1, ref2, ref3 police ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 pollution, as cause of plastic ref1 Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1 reframing ref1, ref2 risk assessments, lack of ref1, ref2 self-respect ref1 surgeons ref1 United States ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Wetiko factor ref1 ‘worms’ ref1 The Matrix movies ref1, ref2, ref3 measles ref1, ref2 media see mainstream media Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Mesopotamia ref1

messaging ref1

military-police state ref1, ref2, ref3

mind control ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 see also MKUltra

MKUltra ref1, ref2, ref3 monarchy ref1

moneysee banking, finance and money Montagnier, Luc ref1, ref2, ref3

Mooney, Bel ref1

Morgellons disease ref1, ref2

mortality rate ref1

Mullis, Kary ref1, ref2, ref3

Musk, Elon ref1




N Nag Hammadi texts ref1, ref2, ref3 nanotechnology ref1, ref2, ref3

narcissism ref1

Nazi Germany ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

near-death experiences ref1, ref2

Neocons ref1, ref2, ref3 Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) and the Delphi technique

 ref1

NHS (National Health Service)

ampliﬁcation cycles ref1 Common Purpose ref1, ref2 mind control ref1 NHS England ref1

saving the NHS ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 whistle-blowers ref1, ref2, ref3 No-Problem-Reaction-Solution ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

non-human dimension of Global Cult ref1

nous ref1

numbers, reality as ref1

Nuremberg Codes ref1, ref2, ref3

Nuremberg-like tribunal, proposal for ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5,

ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12


O Obama, Barackref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 O’Brien, Cathy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Ochel, Evita ref1

Ofcom ref1, ref2, ref3

old people ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Oneness ref1, ref2, ref3

Open Society Foundations (Soros) ref1, ref2, ref3

oxygen 406, 528–34




P paedophiliaref1, ref2 Page, Larry ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 ref1, ref2, ref3 Palestine-Israel conflict

pandemic, definition of ref1

pandemic and health crisis scenarios/simulations ref1, ref2, ref3,  ref4 paranormal ref1 PCR tests ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Pearl Harbor attacks, prior knowledge of ref1

Pelosi, Nancy ref1, ref2, ref3

perception ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

climate change hoax ref1 control ref1, ref2, ref3 decoding ref1, ref2 enslavement ref1 externally-delivered perceptions ref1 ﬁve senses ref1 human labels ref1 media ref1, ref2 political parties ref1, ref2 Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1 sale of perception ref1 self-identity ref1, ref2 Wokeness ref1 Phantom Self ref1, ref2, ref3

pharmaceutical industry see Big Pharma

phthalates ref1

Plato’s Allegory of the Cave ref1, ref2

pneuma ref1

police

Black Lives Ma er (BLM) ref1 brutality ref1 citizen’s arrests ref1, ref2 common law arrests ref1, ref2 Common Purpose ref1 defunding ref1 lockdowns ref1, ref2 masks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 police-military state ref1, ref2, ref3 psychopathic personality ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 reframing ref1 United States ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Wokeness ref1 polio ref1

political correctness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

political parties ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

political puppets ref1

pollution ref1, ref2, ref3

post-mortems/autopsies ref1

Postage Stamp Consensus ref1, ref2

pre-emptive programming ref1

Problem-Reaction-Solution ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Project for the New American Century ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

psychopathic personality ref1

Archons ref1 heart energy ref1 lockdowns ref1, ref2, ref3 police ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 recruitment ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1 wealth ref1 Wetiko ref1, ref2 Psyop (psychological operation), Covid as a ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4,

 ref5 Pushbackers ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

pyramid structure ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Q QAnon Psyop ref1, ref2, ref3


R racismsee also Black Lives Ma er (BLM) anti-racism industry ref1 class ref1 critical race theory ref1 culture ref1 intersectionality ref1 reverse racism ref1 white privilege ref1, ref2 white supremacy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3 radiation ref1, ref2

randomness, illusion of ref1, ref2, ref3

reality ref1, ref2, ref3

reframing ref1, ref2

change agents ref1, ref2 children ref1 climate change ref1 Common Purpose leadership programme ref1, ref2 contradictory rules ref1 enforcers ref1 masks ref1, ref2 NLP and the Delphi technique ref1 police ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 Wokeness ref1, ref2 religion see also particular religions alien invasions ref1 Archons ref1, ref2 consciousness ref1, ref2 control, system of ref1, ref2, ref3 criticism, prohibition on ref1 ﬁve senses ref1 good and evil, war between ref1 hidden non-human forces ref1, ref2 Sabbatians ref1 save me syndrome ref1 Wetiko ref1 Wokeness ref1 repetition and mind control ref1, ref2, ref3

reporting/snitching, encouragement of ref1, ref2

Reptilians/Grey entities ref1

rewiring the mind ref1

Rivers, Thomas Milton ref1, ref2

Rockefeller family ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

Rockefeller Foundation documents ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Roman Empire ref1

Rothschild family ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

RT-PCR tests ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8

Russia

collusion inquiry in US ref1 Russian Revolution ref1, ref2

Sabbatians ref1


S Sabbantian-Frankism ref1, ref2 anti-Semitism ref1, ref2 banking and ﬁnance ref1, ref2, ref3 China ref1, ref2 Israel ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Judaism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Lucifer ref1 media ref1, ref2 Nazis ref1, ref2 QAnon ref1 Rothschilds ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 Russia ref1 Saudi Arabia ref1 Silicon Valley ref1 Sumer ref1 United States ref1, ref2, ref3 Wetiko factor ref1 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3 SAGE (Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies) ref1, ref2, ref3,  ref4 SARS-1ref1 SARs-CoV-2ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8 Satan/Satanism ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

satellites in low-orbit ref1

Saudi Arabia ref1

Save Me Syndrome ref1

scapegoating ref1

Schwab, Klaus ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

 ref11, ref12 science, manipulation of ref1

self-identity ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

self-respect, attacks on ref1

September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on United States ref1, ref2,

 ref3, ref4 77th Brigade of UK military ref1, ref2, ref3

Silicon Valley/tech giants ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 see also

 Facebook Israel ref1 Sabbatians ref1 technocracy ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 Wokeness ref1 simulation hypothesis ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Smart Grid ref1, ref2, ref3

artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) ref1 China ref1, ref2 control centres ref1 the Field ref1 Great Reset ref1 Human 2.0 ref1, ref2 Israel ref1, ref2 vaccines ref1 Wetiko factor ref1 social disapproval ref1

social distancing and isolation ref1, ref2, ref3

abusive relationships ref1, ref2 children ref1 ﬂats and apartments ref1 heart issues ref1 hugs ref1 Internet ref1 masks ref1 media ref1 older people ref1, ref2 one-metre (three feet) rule ref1 rewiring the mind ref1 simulation, universe as a ref1

SPI-B ref1

substance abuse ref1  suicide and self-harm ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5  technology ref1  torture, as ref1, ref2  two-metre (six feet) rule ref1  women ref1 social justice ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

social media see also Facebook bans on alternative views ref1

 censorship ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6  children ref1  emotion ref1  perception ref1  private messages ref1  Twi er ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7  Wetiko factor ref1  YouTube ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Soros, George ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6

Spain ref1

SPI-B (Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours) ref1,

 ref2, ref3, ref4 spider and the web ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Starmer, Keir ref1

Statute Law ref1

Steiner, Rudolf ref1, ref2, ref3

Stockholm syndrome ref1

streptomycin ref1

suicide and self-harm ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Sumer ref1, ref2

Sunstein, Cass ref1, ref2, ref3

swine flu (H1N1) ref1, ref2, ref3

synchronicity ref1

synthetic biology ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

synthetic meat ref1, ref2 T technology see also artificial intelligence (AI); Internet;  social media addiction ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  Archons ref1, ref2  the cloud ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 cyber-operations ref1 cyberwarfare ref1  radiation ref1, ref2  social distancing and isolation ref1  technocracy ref1 Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8, ref9, ref10, ref11, ref12, ref13 telepathy ref1

Tenpenny, Sherri ref1

Tesla, Nikola ref1

testosterone levels, decrease in ref1

testing for Covid-19 ref1, ref2

 anal swab tests ref1  cancer ref1  China ref1, ref2, ref3  Corman-Drosten test ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  death certiﬁcates ref1, ref2  fraudulent testing ref1  genetic material, ampliﬁcation of ref1  Lateral Flow Device (LFD) ref1  PCR tests ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8  vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3 Thunberg, Greta ref1, ref2, ref3

Totalitarian Tiptoe ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

transgender persons

activism ref1 artiﬁcial wombs ref1  censorship ref1  child abuse ref1, ref2  Human 2.0 ref1, ref2, ref3  Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5  women, deletion of rights and status of ref1, ref2  young persons ref1 travel restrictions ref1

Trudeau, Justin ref1, ref2, ref3

Trump, Donald ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10,

 ref11 Twitter ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7




U UKColumnref1, ref2 United Nations (UN)ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 see also Agenda 21/Agenda 2030 (UN)

United Statesref1, ref2 American Revolution ref1 borders ref1, ref2 Capitol Hill riot ref1, ref2 children ref1 China ref1, ref2 CIA ref1, ref2 Daily Pass tracking system ref1 demographics by immigration, changes in ref1 Democrats ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 election fraud ref1 far-right domestic terrorists, pushbackers as ref1 Federal Reserve ref1 ﬂu/respiratory diseases statistics ref1 Global Cult ref1, ref2 hand sanitisers, FDA warnings on ref1  immigration, eﬀects of illegal ref1  impeachment ref1  Israel ref1, ref2  Judaism ref1, ref2, ref3  lockdown ref1  masks ref1  mass media ref1, ref2  nursing homes ref1  Pentagon ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  police ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  pushbackers ref1  Republicans ref1, ref2  borders ref1, ref2 Democrats ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5  Russia, inquiry into collusion with ref1  Sabbatians ref1, ref2, ref3  September 11, 2001, terrorist a acks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  UFO sightings, release of information on ref1  vaccines ref1  white supremacy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  Woke Democrats ref1, ref2


V vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3 adverse reactions ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Africa ref1 anaphylactic shock ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 animals ref1, ref2 anti-vax movement ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 AstraZeneca/Oxford ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 autoimmune diseases, rise in ref1, ref2 Big Pharma ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8 bioweapon, as real ref1, ref2 black and ethnic minority communities ref1 blood clots ref1, ref2 Brain Computer Interface (BCI) ref1 care homes, deaths in ref1 censorship ref1, ref2, ref3 chief medical oﬃcers and scientiﬁc advisers, ﬁnancial interests of  ref1, ref2 children ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9, ref10 China ref1, ref2 clinical trials ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 compensation ref1 compulsory vaccinations ref1, ref2, ref3 computer programs ref1 consciousness ref1 cover-ups ref1 creation before Covid ref1 cytokine storm ref1 deaths and illnesses caused by vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 deﬁnition ref1 developing countries ref1 digital ta oos ref1 DNA-manipulation ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9,  ref10 emergency approval ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 female infertility ref1 funding ref1 genetic suicide ref1 Global Cult ref1 heart chakras ref1 hesitancy ref1 Human 2.0 ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 immunity from prosecution ref1, ref2, ref3 implantable technology ref1 Israel ref1 Johnson & Johnson ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 lockdowns ref1 long-term eﬀects ref1 mainstream media ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 masks ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) ref1, ref2 messaging ref1 Moderna ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 mRNA vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9 nanotechnology ref1, ref2 NHS ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 older people ref1, ref2 operating system ref1 passports ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Pﬁzer/BioNTech ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 polyethylene glycol ref1 pregnant women ref1 psychopathic personality ref1 races, targeting diﬀerent ref1 reverse transcription ref1 Smart Grid ref1 social distancing ref1 social media ref1 sterility ref1 synthetic material, introduction of ref1 tests ref1, ref2, ref3 travel restrictions ref1 variants ref1, ref2

viruses, existence of ref1

whistle-blowing ref1 WHO ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 Wokeness ref1 working, vaccine as ref1 young people ref1 Vallance, Patrick ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9

variants ref1, ref2, ref3

vegans ref1

ventilators ref1, ref2

virology ref1, ref2

virtual reality ref1, ref2, ref3

viruses, existence of ref1

visual reality ref1, ref2

vitamin D ref1, ref2

von Braun, Wernher ref1, ref2




W war-zone hospital mythsref1 waveforms ref1, ref2 wealth ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9 ref10, ref11

wet market conspiracy ref1

Wetiko factor ref1

 alcoholism and drug addiction ref1  anti-human, why Global Cult is ref1  Archons ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) ref1  Big Pharma ref1, ref2  children ref1  China ref1  consciousness ref1, ref2  education ref1  Facebook ref1 fear ref1, ref2 frequency ref1, ref2 Gates ref1, ref2 Global Cult ref1, ref2 heart ref1, ref2 lockdowns ref1 masks ref1 Native American concept ref1 psychopathic personality ref1, ref2 reframing/retraining programmes ref1 religion ref1 Silicon Valley ref1 Smart Grid ref1 smartphone addiction ref1, ref2 social media ref1 war ref1, ref2 WHO ref1 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3 Yaldabaoth ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 whistle-blowing ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

white privilege ref1, ref2

white supremacy ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

Whitty, Christopher ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9,

 ref10 ‘who benefits’ ref1

Wi-Fi ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

Wikipedia ref1, ref2

Wojcicki, Susan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7

Wokeness

Antifa ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 anti-Semitism ref1 billionaire social justice warriors ref1, ref2, ref3  Capitol Hill riot ref1, ref2  censorship ref1  Christianity ref1  climate change hoax ref1, ref2  culture ref1  education, control of ref1  emotion ref1  facts ref1

 fascism ref1, ref2, ref3  Global Cult ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  group-think ref1  immigration ref1  indigenous people, solidarity with ref1  inversion ref1, ref2, ref3  le , hĳacking the ref1, ref2 Marxism ref1, ref2, ref3 mind control ref1 New Woke ref1 Old Woke ref1 Oneness ref1 perceptual programming ref1  Phantom Self ref1 police ref1 defunding the ref1 reframing ref1 public institutions ref1 Pushbackers ref1, ref2, ref3 racism ref1, ref2, ref3 reframing ref1, ref2 religion, as ref1 Sabbatians ref1, ref2, ref3 Silicon Valley ref1 social justice ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4 transgender ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5 United States ref1, ref2  vaccines ref1  Wetiko factor ref1, ref2, ref3 young people ref1, ref2, ref3 women, deletion of rights and status of ref1, ref2 World Economic Forum (WEF) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7,

ref8, ref9 World Health Organization (WHO) ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6,

ref7, ref8, ref9  AIDs/HIV ref1  ampliﬁcation cycles ref1  Big Pharma ref1, ref2, ref3  cooperation in health emergencies ref1  creation ref1, ref2  fatality rate ref1  funding ref1, ref2, ref3  Gates ref1  Internet ref1  lockdown ref1  vaccines ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4  Wetiko factor ref1

world number 1 (masses) ref1, ref2

world number 2 ref1

Wuhan ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7 ref8




Y Yaldabaothref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6 Yeadon, Michael ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4

young people see also children addiction to technology ref1

Human 2.0 ref1 vaccines ref1, ref2 Wokeness ref1, ref2, ref3 YouTube ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5

WHO 548


Z Zaks, Tal ref1 Zionism ref1, ref2, ref3

Zuckerberg, Mark ref1, ref2, ref3, ref4, ref5, ref6, ref7, ref8, ref9,

ref10, ref11, ref12 Zulus ref1 Before you go …

For more detail, background and evidence about the subjects in Perceptions of a Renegade Mind – and so much more – see my others books including And The Truth Shall Set You Free; The Biggest Secret; Children of the Matrix; The David Icke Guide to the Global Conspiracy; Tales from the Time Loop; The Perception Deception; Remember Who You Are; Human Race Get Off Your Knees; Phantom Self; Everything You Need To Know But Have Never Been Told, The Trigger and The Answer.


You can subscribe to the fantastic new Ickonic media platform where there are many hundreds of hours of cu ing-edge information in videos, documentaries and series across a whole range of subjects which are added to every week. This includes my 90 minute breakdown of the week’s news every Friday to explain why events are happening and to what end. 